A BURST OF REVELRY FROM THE FORECASTLE
A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might
A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in
A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod
A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship's high
A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most
A mariner sat in the shrouds one night
A moment! Pardon!' cried another of the company. 'In the name of all
A peddler of heads too--perhaps the heads of his own brothers. He might
A pretty scholar,' laughed the Lakeman. 'Adios, Senor!' and leaping
A short rushing sound leaped out of the boat; it was the darted iron of
A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on
A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he
A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung open
A word concerning an incident in the last chapter
A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of
AHAB MOVING TO GO ON DECK; PIP CATCHES HIM BY THE HAND TO FOLLOW
AHAB STANDING BY THE HELM. STARBUCK APPROACHING HIM
ALL. The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (THEY SCATTER
AND VARIOUS TOOLS OF ALL SORTS LYING ABOUT THE BENCH. FORWARD, THE RED
APPLICATION FOR THE ERECTION OF A BREAKWATER AT NANTUCKET. 1828
AS TOLD AT THE GOLDEN INN
AZORE SAILOR. (ASCENDING, AND PITCHING THE TAMBOURINE UP THE SCUTTLE
Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this
Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though
Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about
According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushes
According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! no
Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked
African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the pelt inside
Aft here, ye sons of bachelors," he cried, as the sailors lingered at
Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came to know of
Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart is repeated
Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant
Again: as the profound calm which only apparently precedes and
Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck to
Ah! poor fellow! he'll have to die now," ejaculated the Long Island
Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who crouching
Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, "All ready
Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at
Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck--a lance without
Ahab must have the doubloon! and with his own hands he rigged a nest
Ahab rapidly ordered the ship's course to be slightly altered, and the
Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod
Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh's. Methuselah seems
Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
Ahab's head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock
Ahab's iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever
Ahab's soul, shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the
Ahab's wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as
Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but I
Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
Ahab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that
Ahab--invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the land
Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver
Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the
Ahab?--But pull on! Aye, all alive, now--we near him. The helm! take the
Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda--indeed, by some supposed
Alabama boy! On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere long see him
Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was less than
Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night
Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and
Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from
All 'dention," said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
All 'dention," said the old black, with both hands placed as desired
All honour to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to
All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward and
All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire the
All right again before long!" laughed the stranger, with a solemnly
All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for
All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and
Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle
Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off
Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost
Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn't the devil live
America now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world
American whale fishery as with the American army and military and
American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they
Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only
Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God--never
Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by all the
Among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the
An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea, and all
An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's
And King of the boundless sea
And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his elaborate history of whales
And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
And a joker is the whale
And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did
And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their
And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance
And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
And as mechanical," muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he
And by Jove, he's found something there in the vicinity of his thigh--I
And did none of ye see it before?" cried Ahab, hailing the perched men
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep
And give no chance, but swallow in the fry
And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to
And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would
And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down
And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled out into view
And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea
And now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide a
And now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and
And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the
And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?" --EDMUND BURKE'S
And shall I caulk the seams, sir?" moving his hand as with a
And shall I nail down the lid, sir?" moving his hand as with a hammer
And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?" moving his hand as
And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and
And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because
And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet have reason to
And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale
And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But
And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the coast, are the
And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off," he added--"come
And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out
And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
And thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg
And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, among
And thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other
And what is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's
And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster's
And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first man on deck
And what will you do with the tail, Stubb
And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that
And who are hearsed that die on the sea
And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of
And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I
Andes' summits; from one a flame; a tower on another; on the third a
Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
Another point of difference between the male and female schools is
Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask
Apoplexy! I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted
Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial
Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat
Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast
Around the vault of heaven
Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
Art not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy
As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy
As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter
As I sat there in that now lonely room; the fire burning low, in that
As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck
As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again
As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the lips while
As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over the
As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that
As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all
As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft
As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first
As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should
As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close
As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a
As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of
As it floundered in the sea
As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains
As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
As the Lakeman's bare head was just level with the planks, the Captain
As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of
As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live
As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
As the type of the FOLIO I present the SPERM WHALE; of the OCTAVO, the
As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the
As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most surprising
As we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg
As when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of
As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage. With the
As, after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket
As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of
Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the Isles
Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be
Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin
Assuredly, we must conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such
At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous
At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh
At first, the steel went round and round, quivering and vibrating at
At last it was given out that some time next day the ship would
At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern
At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It
At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed
At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner
At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound
At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of the
At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along
At length the desired observation was taken; and with his pencil upon
At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship's riggers
At length, when the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great
At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns
At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
At sunrise the Captain went forward, and knocking on the deck, summoned
At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then
At that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first
At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame
At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap, then sideways
At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard
At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the
At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me
At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter of a
At the time, I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all
At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing
At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the
Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modern Jaffa
Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and
Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But to what
Availing himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned in
Avast Stubb," cried Starbuck, "let the Typhoon sing, and strike his
Avast!" cried Ahab; "let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker
Avast!" cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming close behind
Avast!" roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks--"Man the boat
Away from the quarter-deck
Away! what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and
Aye, I see!--wanted to part it; free the fast-fish--an old trick--I
Aye, and that's because the lid there's a sounding-board; and what in
Aye, aye!" shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the
Aye, aye, I thought as much," soliloquized Stubb, when the boats
Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship
Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who he
Aye, aye, it must be so. I've oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye
Aye, aye, men!" cried Ahab. "Look up at it; mark it well; the white
Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain
Aye, aye," said Stubb, the second mate, "Starbuck, there, is as careful
Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!" cried Ahab, "thy hour and
Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too
Aye, sir," said Stubb--"caught among the tangles of your line--I
Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work
Aye, the Pequod--that ship there," he said, drawing back his whole
Aye, you are the chap, ain't ye, that heard the hum of the old
Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir," said the pale mate
BELFAST SAILOR. A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row! Plunge
BOATS' CREWS; THE TWO CAPTAINS REMAINING, FOR THE TIME, ON BOARD OF ONE
BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER I. (SPERM WHALE).--This whale, among the
BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER II. (RIGHT WHALE).--In one respect this is the
BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER II. (BLACK FISH).--I give the popular
BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER 1. (HUZZA PORPOISE).--This is the
BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER III. (MEALY-MOUTHED PORPOISE).--The
BY THE MAINMAST; STARBUCK LEANING AGAINST IT
Bachelor; but the Bachelor's men never heeding their gaze for the lively
Bad news; she brings bad news," muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck," said Stubb, regarding the wreck
Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of his bed
Bastille, such wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and
Be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the three
Be careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don't stave the boats needlessly
Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!--brace up
Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashioned
Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies
Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his
Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of
Beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin
Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is
Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam through libraries and
Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers
Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend into it through a
Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried the
Being the savage's bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar
Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's midnight, on the road
Belshazzar's awful writing. I have never marked the coin inspectingly
Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of one of
Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have an agreeable
Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the
Best not,' hissed the Lakeman
Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual
Better turn to, now?' said the Captain with a heartless jeer
Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as
Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates
Blanc, or Louis the Devil. Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on
Blast the boat! let it go!" cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's," cried Bunger, stoopingly
Both ends of the line are exposed; the lower end terminating in an
Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the
Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, the
Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires
Britain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties
Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and
Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon
Bunger in the watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die in
But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the
But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel
But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these
But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks to
But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the Captain
But I must,'--and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke
But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is
But after that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either
But again he leaned over towards the people, and bowing his head lowly
But agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle
But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not merely lend new
But already the sable wing was before the old man's eyes; the long
But as for Queequeg--why, Queequeg sat there among them--at the head of
But as for you, ye carrion rogues,' turning to the three men in the
But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; the boat
But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough
But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale man
But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the
But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the
But as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was in the
But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller
But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed
But be all this as it may, certain it is that while the subordinate
But be all this as it may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air
But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple
But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, going
But blanched to a corpse's hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away
But by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almost
But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew
But even Solomon, he says, "the man that wandereth out of the way
But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon
But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great Christian painter's
But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No; he
But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away, when a naked figure
But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the
But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the excitement of the
But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with which
But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest
But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I will
But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the
But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written
But humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart an
But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale's proper brain, you
But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable
But if, in the face of all this, you still declare that whaling has no
But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab
But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the Post-Office
But it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded
But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the
But it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain to
But it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of his
But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
But leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I
But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable
But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent
But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he
But no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers
But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than all three
But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the
But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable house again
But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and
But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as
But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newly
But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was
But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan will
But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant
But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the more
But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards the
But supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room light
But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible
But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish
But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are an
But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one
But the monster's run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he
But the only thing to be considered here, is this--what kind of oil is
But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was
But the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place
But the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a
But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound
But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck
But there was more than this: the order about the shovel was almost as
But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
But there was none in the forecastle
But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain
But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very
But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more
But this is not the half; look again
But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of
But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes
But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and
But though when she had thus sailed a sufficient distance to gain the
But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the
But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and
But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of the
But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that
But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was
But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete
But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his
But what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to the
But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable
But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as
But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the
But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a
But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out
But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail? A reason
But why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other
But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering
But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed
But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was
But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began howling
But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians
But, by the best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of
But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody
But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some details
But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally lived
By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned mast-heads
By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the
By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the
By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the
By salt and hemp!" cried Stubb, "but this swift motion of the deck
By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious
By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no allusion was
By the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude
By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round his
By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day
By these means, the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the
By this time Stubb was over the side, and getting into his boat, hailed
By this time the faint air had become a complete calm; so that whether
CARPENTER STANDING BEFORE HIS VICE-BENCH, AND BY THE LIGHT OF TWO
CHAPTER 101. The Decanter
CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides
CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale's Skeleton
CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale
CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale's Magnitude Diminish?--Will He Perish
CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter
CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter
CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin
CHAPTER 111. The Pacific
CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith
CHAPTER 113. The Forge
CHAPTER 114. The Gilder
CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor
CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale
CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch
CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant
CHAPTER 119. The Candles
CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch
CHAPTER 121. Midnight.--The Forecastle Bulwarks
CHAPTER 123. The Musket
CHAPTER 124. The Needle
CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line
CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy
CHAPTER 127. The Deck
CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel
CHAPTER 129. The Cabin
CHAPTER 130. The Hat
CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight
CHAPTER 132. The Symphony
CHAPTER 133. The Chase--First Day
CHAPTER 134. The Chase--Second Day
CHAPTER 135. The Chase.--Third Day
CHAPTER 16. The Ship
CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan
CHAPTER 19. The Prophet
CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag
CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore
CHAPTER 24. The Advocate
CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn
CHAPTER 30. The Pipe
CHAPTER 33. The Specksynder
CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table
CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head
CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck
CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane
CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of The Whale
CHAPTER 44. The Chart
CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit
CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker
CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering
CHAPTER 49. The Hyena
CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout
CHAPTER 52. The Albatross
CHAPTER 53. The Gam
CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho's Story
CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales
CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
CHAPTER 6. The Street
CHAPTER 60. The Line
CHAPTER 62. The Dart
CHAPTER 63. The Crotch
CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish
CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre
CHAPTER 68. The Blanket
CHAPTER 69. The Funeral
CHAPTER 7. The Chapel
CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx
CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam's Story
CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope
CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale's Head--Contrasted View
CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale's Head--Contrasted View
CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram
CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun
CHAPTER 79. The Prairie
CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit
CHAPTER 80. The Nut
CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin
CHAPTER 82. The Honour and Glory of Whaling
CHAPTER 85. The Fountain
CHAPTER 86. The Tail
CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada
CHAPTER 9. The Sermon
CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud
CHAPTER 93. The Castaway
CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand
CHAPTER 95. The Cassock
CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works
CHAPTER 97. The Lamp
CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon
CHARLES LAMB'S TRIUMPH OF THE WHALE
COLNETT'S VOYAGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXTENDING THE SPERMACETI WHALE
CROW'S-NEST of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good
Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's there? It is the same
Can't see the spout now, sir;--too dark"--cried a voice from the air
Can't you twist that smaller?" said Flask. "Yes, that's the law
Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not run with
Canallers, Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal. You
Cancer the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo
Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called), being off the mouth of the
Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We
Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales
Captain Ahab," said Tashtego, "that white whale must be the same that
Captain Ahab," said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin
Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other
Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider the
Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another
Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for three days
Captain that is lord over the Pequod.--On deck
Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among
Captain, study out the course, and let us away! See, see! the boy's face
Captain--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain);--as I was saying, I jumped
Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but what
Capting! Capting!" yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer
Capting, Capting, here's the devil
Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It's the three soaked biscuits
Caught and twisted--corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons
Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is
Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great
Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent in
Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Clear away the boats! Luff!" cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he
Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike the
Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir
Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither
Closing the door upon the landlady, I endeavored to prevail upon
Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to visit either of
Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleets
Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist. True, among the more upright and
Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's. In the previous
Cologne-water in the sea
Come aboard, come aboard!" cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting
Come down, come down!" yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand
Come out of that, ye pirates!' roared the captain, now menacing them
Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman
Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction
Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo
Concerning all this, it is much to be deplored that the mast-heads of a
Concerning the officers of the whale-craft, this seems as good a place
Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck
Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures glide
Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging
Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night
Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch
Cook," here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slap
Cook," said Stubb, squaring himself once more; "do you belong to the
Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy of Sciences
Corkscrew!" cried Ahab, "aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted
Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear
Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it
Created hugest that swim the ocean stream." --PARADISE LOST
Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower
Crossed Harpoons," and "The Sword-Fish?"--this, then must needs be the
Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's
Crowding all sail the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers
Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton
D'ye mark him, Flask?" whispered Stubb; "the chick that's in him pecks
D'ye see him?" cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light
D'ye see him?" cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight
DARKENS--THE WIND RISES
DEAD whale--even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned
DUODECIMOES.--These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise
DURING THE ENSUING SCENE, THE CARPENTER CONTINUES SNEEZING AT TIMES
Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Damn him, cut!" roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was
Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod's
Darmonodes' elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with
Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly
Death and the Judgment then? What? With all three masts making such an
Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death
Decapitation--and striking it into the lower part of the half-suspended
December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little packet
Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed
Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and the Pequod. DEVIL-DAM, I do not know the
Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the
Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshipped
Dick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his
Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this intelligence
Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold? And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it? What
Didn't say dat t'all," said Fleece, again in the sulks
Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip? He must be up here; let's try the
Dinner, Mr. Stubb," and descends the scuttle. The second Emir lounges
Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its
Do you see that mainmast there?" pointing to the ship; "well, that's
Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?" said the
Dorchester near Boston. I have the honour of being a nephew of his. I
Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round the
Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter
Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honouring us
Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exact
Down into the forecastle then, down with ye, I'll keep ye there till
Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white brine
Drat the file, and drat the bone! That is hard which should be soft
Drink and pass!" he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the
Dry heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred
Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included
Duke to the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign. We must needs
During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming for the
During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an
During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's
During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
During these days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the
ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country planted in the
END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE
ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man's a grand old cove! We are the
ENGLISH SAILOR. Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard's knife! A ring, a ring
East-sou-east, sir," said the frightened steersman
Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the
Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well of water within the walls
End of Project Gutenberg's Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks
English and the right whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree
English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter
Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my credentials
Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen
Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin
Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale's head, I would have
Ere the English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that
Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of the backstays
Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started
Espying the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the
Euroclydon," says an old writer--of whose works I possess the only copy
Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but
Even the cabin table itself had been knocked into kindling-wood; and the
Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly
Excellent! Thou'st hit the world by that
FAIR WIND! OH-YE-HO, CHEERLY MEN!" the crew singing for joy, that so
FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE. SLABS OF IVORY, LEATHER STRAPS, PADS, SCREWS
FLAME OF THE FORGE IS SEEN, WHERE THE BLACKSMITH IS AT WORK
FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:--I. The SPERM
FORESAIL RISES AND DISCOVERS THE WATCH STANDING, LOUNGING, LEANING, AND
FREDERICK DEBELL BENNETT'S WHALING VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, 1840
Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro
Fanning's Island, or the far away King's Mills; how much more natural
Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the
Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets
Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman
Fates--remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with the
Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and
Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and
Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod's
Fifth: As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes
Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be
Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied. "I mean, sir, the same
Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three
First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering
First of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selected
First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary
First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in
First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket
First: The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, if by
First: The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology
First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the general
Fishes, we sleep. There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the
Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved
Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he thought the owners
Flask to "that whale," as he called the fictitious monster which
Flask; so you suppose I'm afraid of the devil? Who's afraid of
Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it
Flounders round the Polar Sea
Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none of the
Fool! the lines--the harpoons he's towing. Aye, aye, I have run him by
For a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his
For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain
For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking
For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks
For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. "The
For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey
For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, that
For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once narrated
For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so
For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects
For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied
For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on
For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the
For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that
For the third time my soul's ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck
For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them
For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire
For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate
For, viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his
Forward, there! Heave the log
Fourth: Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the
France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern Lights, and the
Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would make
French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes. It is the whale
French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon
From the ship's bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers
From the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part of
From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge
Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting
Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown
GRAMPUS; of the DUODECIMO, the PORPOISE
GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES
Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship. The consequence of all
Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the White
Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and
Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed
Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little
Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into his
Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that not till
Gayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps
German boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, Derick's
Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide
Get along with ye," said she to the man, "or I'll be combing ye
Get the axe! For God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry
Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire
Give me a chance, then," said the Englishman, good-humoredly. "Well
Give way!" cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to
Give way, men," whispered Starbuck, drawing still further aft the sheet
Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty
God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his
God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliverance of
God's burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His "Mene, Mene
God, and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all the
God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of waters
Going forward and glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that the
Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general
Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air
Good God!" cried the English Captain, to whom the question was put
Good!" cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the
Gospel duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God
Granting other whales to be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give
Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; the Baliene Ordinaire of the
Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow it; they whip
Greenland whale is deposed,--the great sperm whale now reigneth
Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various
Grub, ho!" now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went
Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
HATCHWAY; THE CARPENTER CAULKING ITS SEAMS; THE STRING OF TWISTED OAKUM
HIS FROCK.--AHAB COMES SLOWLY FROM THE CABIN-GANGWAY, AND HEARS PIP
Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot of
Had not the stranger stood between me and the door, I would have bolted
Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet
Had you descended from the Pequod's try-works to the Pequod's
Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that
Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of this
Hallo, _you_ sir," cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking
Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than
Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along its
Hard down out of that! Mind what I said about the marchant
Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when a fourth
Hark ye yet again--the little lower layer. All visible objects, man
Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon, might
Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,--the man's wife, I'll wager)--Aye--Mr
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting the
Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides through the
Hast seen the White Whale
Hast seen the White Whale
Hast seen the White Whale
Hast seen the White Whale?" gritted Ahab in reply
Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against
Hast thou seen the White Whale?" demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted
Haul in the chains! Let the carcase go astern
Haul in--haul in!" cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
Have to burst it open," said I, and was running down the entry a
He ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,--breakfast and
He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered
He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks
He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?" said the landlady
He has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most
He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now
He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the
He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit's bows, folded his large
He pays reg'lar," was the rejoinder. "But come, it's getting dreadful
He says, Monsieur," said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
He substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a large
He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire hissed in the
He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is
He wants you to take a glass of wine with him," said the interpreter
He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly
He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on the stove
He would have shot me once," he murmured, "yes, there's the very musket
He'll be here afore long," was the answer
He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night," said the old Manx
Hear him, hear him now," cried Peleg, marching across the cabin, and
Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled
Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties
Heart of wrought steel!" murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and
Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for
Heaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved
Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish must be
Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes
Hercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more
Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships of
Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount! Now
Here!" cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his
Here!" whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; "every mother's son
Here's the ship's navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fire
Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
Hindoo. It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda from the
His all the mercy and the power
His deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the
His son!" cried Stubb, "oh, it's his son he's lost! I take back the
His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in the
History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar
Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small
Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly
Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one side, New
Hold on, hold on, won't ye?" cried Stubb to the body, "don't be in such
Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
Holding the office directly from the crown, I believe, all the royal
Holloa! Starbuck's astir," said the rigger. "He's a lively chief mate
Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith
Horn, and was the first among the nations to lower a whale-boat of any
Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the
Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and marching along the
How different the loud little King-Post. "Sing out and say something
How it was exactly," continued the one-armed commander, "I do not know
How now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain
How? how?' cried all the young Spaniards, crowding
However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on the
However, Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the
However, a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the
Hugest of living creatures, in the deep
Hussey! apoplexy!"--and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I
Huzza! huzza!" cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins they
Hyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from the
Hyperborean winter scene.--It's the breaking-up of the icebound stream
I am a Hebrew,' he cries--and then--'I fear the Lord the God of Heaven
I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain
I am going to put him down for the three hundredth," said Peleg, "do ye
I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself
I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it were best to
I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir
I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form
I cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner in a
I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad
I don't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled. Go for the
I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind
I don't know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked
I fear not thy epidemic, man," said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain
I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life
I give the glory to my God
I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin of
I have heard," murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, "that in
I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line
I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the
I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of
I hold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case
I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these
I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the
I know not that any other author has hinted of the matter; but by
I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun
I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale
I know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to
I know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe
I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too--that I feel; the jagged edge galls
I learnt that there were three ships up for three-years' voyages--The
I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardly
I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened
I may as well say--en passant, as the French remark--that I myself--that
I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel
I met--the chamber-maid. "La! la!" she cried, "I thought something must
I might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident
I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling but
I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too
I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of smell
I opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the
I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this
I prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling; for a
I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask
I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the
I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged
I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the
I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this
I saw the opening maw of hell
I say, pull like god-dam,"--cried the Indian
I say, the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty
I say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human
I say; merry's the word; hurrah! Damn me, won't you dance? Form, now
I should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal, but cannot
I should not much wonder if, in the darkness of that early hour of the
I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this
I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old
I tell thee again, Gabriel, that--" But again the boat tore ahead as if
I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg
I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer
I was a good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible
I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the
I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman
I was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir
I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of
I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat. As I
I went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to the long
I will have the first sight of the whale myself,"--he said. "Aye
I will not go," said the stranger, "till you say aye to me. Do to me
I will tell you. The abounding good cheer of these English whalers
I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard," said
I'll have me--let's see--how many in the ship's company, all told? But
I'll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan
I'll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth
I'm for it;" and so saying he started for the quarter-deck
I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest
I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it
I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE
I; "all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
I?--The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails
II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic
Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for the
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing
If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist his
If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's
If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to
If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the
If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. Good-bye
If you make the least damn bit of noise," replied Samuel, "I will send
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea." "A field
In 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose
In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands of
In a moment he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men
In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock
In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of
In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern
In an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled upon
In another place--p. 45,--he speaks of "THE MYSTERIOUS AND MORTAL ATTACK
In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand the
In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and
In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but
In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken
In both cases, the stranded whales to which these two skeletons
In cavalier attendance upon the school of females, you invariably see a
In chapters 24, 89, and 90, we substituted a capital L for the symbol
In compliance with the standing order of his commander--to report
In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly
In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the
In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the
In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop's
In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory of my own
In good time, Flask's saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply
In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port--a savage, solitary
In length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two
In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if
In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least among
In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were
In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of
In most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost
In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not so
In old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were
In old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies
In order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a
In some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to
In some previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the
In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless
In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples--long
In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword
In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats
In the English boats two tubs are used instead of one; the same line
In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it's good. Here's a man
In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar substance
In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish
In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
In the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain
In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish
In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous
In the first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these
In the free element beneath me swam
In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet
In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir
In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing alongside
In the sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrate
In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable
In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, there
In the vast Atlantic is
In the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books you will
In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the
In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be a
In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will
In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the
In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan
In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a
In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included
Indeed, in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the
Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could
Indian characters chiselled on the famous hieroglyphic palisades on
Indian in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw their child borne
Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat
Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America add
Indian's, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the
Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle? Throw yourselves! Legs
Instantly the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his
Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of "HO! THE
Is it not a saying in every one's mouth, Possession is half of the law
Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the
Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids
Is that a friar passing?' said Don Pedro, looking downwards into the
Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?" he roared
Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of
Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen
Is this the Captain of the Pequod?" said I, advancing to the door of
Ishmael can go. The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one
Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it
Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with
Islanders seem to make the best whalemen. They were nearly all Islanders
It ain't the White Whale to-day! Give way
It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman
It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong
It drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by the
It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole; if
It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the
It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were transported to her
It is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels
It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean without being struck
It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread
It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the
It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense
It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively
It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked
It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan, in
It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera
It is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the Right
It is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens, even modern
It is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the
It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once
It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the
It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
It may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast-head
It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a
It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous, while
It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking
It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black
It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade
It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example
It so chanced, that after the Parsee's disappearance, I was he whom the
It was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in her
It was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so
It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were
It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily lounging
It was a shocking bad wound," began the whale-surgeon; "and, taking my
It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of the
It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale was
It was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted, and when we
It was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of the Icy
It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's try-works were
It was an exceedingly LONG LAY that, indeed; and though from the
It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of seven
It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most
It was during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with the
It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken some
It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the crimson
It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the cordon, whose
It was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second
It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders
It was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one
It was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from
It was not me," cried Dough-Boy, "it was Aunt Charity that brought the
It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing
It was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales
It was not very long after speaking the Goney that another
It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and
It was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came snugly
It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line
It was the magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy of the
It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale
It will make a good enough one," said Flask, "the carpenter here can
It will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the
It's a white whale, I say," resumed Ahab, as he threw down the topmaul
Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival
Java, in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of
Job's whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made
John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the
Jonah's whale, as depicted in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of
Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can't open his mouth, but that
Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of
Jungfrau or the Virgin
Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length
King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it
King Edward, the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death
King-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post was
Knife? Aye, aye," cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter's heavy
LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG, WHICH JOIST IS
LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it'll be douse sail soon. The sky-born
LAY, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred and
LORD BACON'S VERSION OF THE PSALMS
Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is coming
Lakeman's monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for
Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted
Landlord," I whispered, "that aint the harpooneer is it
Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the
Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with the
Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar
Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with
Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir
Let me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, further into the light
Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though
Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. What
Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads--namely, the two
Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this
Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep to
Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright
Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, Perseus, the prince
Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubt this
Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered to its dam. Not
Libra, or the Scales--happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we
Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck's orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the
Lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool on the
Like as the wounded whale to shore flies thro' the maine
Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea
Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf
Line! line!" cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; "him fast! him
Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe
Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale
Look aloft!" cried Starbuck. "The corpusants! the corpusants
Look at the crowds of water-gazers there
Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted
Look here," said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet
Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy
Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was
Look ye, now,' cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him
Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.--How long before the
Look ye--there's something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask
Look you," roared the Captain, "I'll kill-e YOU, you cannibal, if you
Look!" replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with
Loose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what
Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the
Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal
Lord, Flask, if the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before
Lower away then; d'ye hear?" shouting across the deck. "Lower away
Lower away!"--cried Ahab, tossing the mate's arm from him. "Stand by
Lucifer. The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the
MALTESE SAILOR. (RECLINING AND SHAKING HIS CAP.) It's the waves--the
MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward
MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by the halyards! in
MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE
MONTGOMERY'S WORLD BEFORE THE FLOOD
Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the
Man my boat!" cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near
Man overboard!" cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation first
Man the capstan! Blood and thunder!--jump!"--was the next command, and
Man the mast-heads! Call all hands
Manilla; this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
Many spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of
Mark well the whale!--Ho! again!--drive off that hawk! see! he pecks--he
Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; "come on board
Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship
Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling
Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, "Mr. Har--yes, Mr
Meantime, Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided the
Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever
Meantime, at the first tap of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had
Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship's
Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped
Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing
Meanwhile, all the boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions of
Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic
Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed
Measured for a leg! good. Well, it's not the first time. About it
Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it. Even now I am
Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these
Men," said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed
Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English overswarm
Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a White Friar or
Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing and boxing
Mind he don't sling thee with it," cried Starbuck. "Give way, or the
Moby Dick to his death!" The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted
Moby Dick?" shouted Ahab. "Do ye know the white whale then, Tash
More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the
Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes
Moreover: we are to consider, that from the presumed great longevity
Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings
Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility
Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in
Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the docks
Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was
Mr. Starbuck all the time--queer--sir--queer, queer, very queer. And
Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was found
Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. A
My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?" I answered, "we have been stove
My boy," said the landlord, "you'll have the nightmare to a dead
My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir"--said the
NO DIGNITY IN WHALING? The dignity of our calling the very heavens
Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to
Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky
Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy
Nantucket! The same!--the same!--the same to Noah as to me. There's
Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses
Nantucket." --"NARRATIVE OF THE GLOBE," BY LAY AND HUSSEY SURVIVORS
Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being Christmas when the
Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness
Nature, A.D. 1776, Linnaeus declares, "I hereby separate the whales from
Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's
Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with the line
Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of the
Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these things
Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost. By great
Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber
Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly
Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage
Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's vocabulary
No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
No more the whale did me confine
No more, Queequeg," said I, shuddering; "that will do;" for I knew the
No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg," said Bildad
No such green weather stains on Ahab's head! There's the difference now
No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
No, I don't," said the captain, "but his mother did; he was born with
No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I
No, no--no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy
No, thank ye, Bunger," said the English Captain, "he's welcome to the
No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast
No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all the more congenial
No; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the
No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all," said the other
Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for
Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more
Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole
Nor does this--its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the graceful
Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the
Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling
Nor is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost
Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity
Nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea-taste that
Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and in accordance
Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the
Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of the
Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is
Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all
Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself
Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm
Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams
Not forged!" and snatching Perth's levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab
Not only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on
Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune's favourites
Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever
Not the same instant; not the same--no, the doubloon is mine, Fate
Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after a
Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun
Nothing, nothing sir!" was the sound hailing down in reply
Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the
Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale
Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must
Now in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot
Now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck, he
Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the whale
Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be
Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah." --JONAH
Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instant
Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular
Now then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock
Now this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the
Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun
Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and as
Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having authority
Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table
Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an
Now, I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish
Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel's
Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of
Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a very
Now, as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school, so
Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off
Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this conventional
Now, by all odds, the most ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to
Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis, its
Now, cook," said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; "stand
Now, during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually
Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale's eyes, it is
Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the
Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of
Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats. Some
Now, in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during the term
Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving
Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one of hickory
Now, one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic
Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the
Now, the Captain D'Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in
Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German
Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is
Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way
Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it
Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm
Now, this plan of Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection
Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow
Now, to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans
Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin
Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter
Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw the
Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
Now," said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, "spos-ee him whale-e
O Bulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy
OCTAVOES.*--These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which
OF THE ANIMAL
OF THE WHALE-SHIP HOBOMACK
OLD MANX SAILOR. How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sort
OLD MANX SAILOR. Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ring
Oars! Oars!" he intensely whispered, seizing the helm--"gripe your
Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:--The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale
October 13.  "There she blows," was sung out from the mast-head
Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far the largest is the
Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and
Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost
Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they
Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the Right
Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor
Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen
Off-shore Ground in the PACIFIC, December 31st, 1839. THIS MARBLE Is
Oh certainly,' said the Captain, and the key clicked
Oh! Ahab," cried Starbuck, "not too late is it, even now, the third
Oh! jolly is the gale
Oh! keep cool--cool? yes, that's the word! why don't you pack those
Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend
Oh! see the suds he makes!" cried Flask, dancing up and down--"What
Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless
Oh! that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one
Oh! the metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two
Oh! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among
Oh!" cried the one-armed captain, "oh, yes! Well; after he sounded
Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in
Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged
Oh, no," said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, "the harpooneer
Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that the
Oh, that's only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any
Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale
Oh, very severe!" chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering
Old Thunder!" said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his
Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less
Omen? omen?--the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright to
On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a
On each soft side--coincident with the parted swell, that but once
On life and death this old man walked. But though the ship so swiftly
On the day following Queequeg's signing the articles, word was given at
On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your
On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed
On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them
On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure from
On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the
Once more the sermon proceeded
Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take
One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom
One of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon
One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked
One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters and
Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and
Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring bison
Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope
Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! And who pronounced our
Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life
Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, there's another in the
Our captain stood upon the deck
Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in
Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the
Overhearing the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the
PAID,--what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
PIP (SHRINKING UNDER THE WINDLASS). Jollies? Lord help such jollies
PORTUGUESE SAILOR. How the sea rolls swashing 'gainst the side! Stand
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
Pacific zones the world's whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay
Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them--"Come hither
Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned
Parsee--the Parsee!--gone, gone? and he was to go before:--but still was
Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be
Passed one once in Cape-Down," said the old man sullenly
Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch! Oh, life! 'tis in an hour like
Peace, thou crazy loon," cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm
Pedestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect
Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the
Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat
Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking and
Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising
Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra
Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At the well known
Pequod was as good a ship as any--I thought the best--and all this I now
Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of the
Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice
Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it blew
Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to
Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at the time, but I
Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative
Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march boldly
Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve the complete
Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any other
Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon the
Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature
Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor Pip turned his
Pip, here comes the royal yard! It's worse than being in the whirled
Pip, or by the Lord, I won't pick you up if you jump; mind that. We
Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip's missing
Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the
Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced
Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Please, sir, who is the Lord Warden
Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the
Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in
Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you should
Possession the whole of the law
Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale
Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlord
Presently, the vapours in advance slid aside; and there in the distance
Prince of Wales, never saw the Captain's cabin. They put him down among
Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Pull up--pull up!" he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whale
Pull, babes--pull, sucklings--pull, all. But what the devil are you
Pull, pull, my good boys," said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but
Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular
Put one foot upon the table. Shame upon all cowards.--Hist! above there
Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
Quakers are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They
Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from
Queequeg no care what god made him shark," said the savage, agonizingly
Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and
Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West and
Queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his
Queequeg's harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray
Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous had taken
Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to descend upon the
Queequeg," said I, going up to him, "Queequeg, what's the matter with
Queequeg," said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck
Quick, Bildad," said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the close
Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers. We must have
Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went
Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nautical
RAPE OF THE LOCK
REFERENCE IN PARLIAMENT TO THE NANTUCKET WHALE-FISHERY
REPORT OF DANIEL WEBSTER'S SPEECH IN THE U. S. SENATE, ON THE
REQUIEM denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music. Now
Radney stood up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken
Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea. Commanded
Ready," was the half-hissed reply
Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he
Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast
Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of
Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the
Regarding the Sperm Whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an
Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye
Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found Queequeg there
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with
Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent back. And all the while
Right Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in
Right. It's a partnership; he supplies the muscle part. He makes a
Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru
Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery locality
Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon
River Whale in the United States." Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire
Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water
Roman race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him; as
Round the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings
Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first person
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at the age of eighteen, was
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN COLEMAN
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY, Who in the bows
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
SHIP, AND THE TWO CHIEF MATES ON THE OTHER
SIR T. BROWNE. OF SPERMA CETI AND THE SPERMA CETI WHALE. VIDE HIS V
SLEEP OR LIE AMONG THE COILS OF RIGGING. OATHS A-PLENTY
SLOWLY UNWINDING FROM A LARGE ROLL OF IT PLACED IN THE BOSOM OF
SPANISH SAILOR. (ASIDE.) He wants to bully, ah!--the old grudge makes
START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE
STRAFFORD'S LETTER FROM THE BERMUDAS. PHIL. TRANS. A.D. 1668
SUDDEN, REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE
Sail ho!" cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head
Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him
Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship," interrupted the one-armed
Santa?--heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about the silver calabash
Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
Savesoul's income of L100,000 seized from the scant bread and cheese
Say ye so? then see how ye frighten me'--and the Captain drew off with
Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a
Scorpion, stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whang
Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama
Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly
Sea-coal? firewood?--lucifer matches?--tinder?--gunpowder?--what the
Season-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable her commander
Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high
Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
Sebastian's suit,' cried the company, with exceeding interest
Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight of the
Secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant
Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807
Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of
See you this?" and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it
Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's
Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window, and that the
Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan
Seen from the Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of
Set all sail, and keep her to the wind
Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to
Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on the Japanese
Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the
Shaking off the sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself
Shall we?' cried the ringleader to his men. Most of them were against
Shifting the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about
Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale
Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
Ship, ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale
Shirt, who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing
Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this
Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the
Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne
Sing out for him!" was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
Sink the ship?' cried Steelkilt. 'Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
Sir!" said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on
Sir," said I, "I thought I told you that I had been four voyages in the
Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does
Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side and
Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and
Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the Pequod still held on her
Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong
Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging
So I am, but take that.' The mate was in the very act of striking
So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse, ere he
So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodicalness of the
So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold
So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soon
So help me Heaven, and on my honour the story I have told ye
So look the long line of man-of-war's men about to throw themselves on
So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as
So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the livid
So soon as he recovered himself, the poor little negro was assailed
So that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him, not a few of
So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between
So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were
So, cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after many failures
So, so, (THRUSTS HIS HEAD DOWN THE SCUTTLE,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y
So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea, the
Some days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now
Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of
Some moments passed, during which the thick vapour came from his mouth
Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland whale of the
Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the
Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat arrived
Some two years prior to my first learning the events which I am about
Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language
Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which
Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated
Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped; all the boat-sails
Soon the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vessel
Soon to the sport of death the crews repair
Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset
Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body
Sounding him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man
South Sea Voyages, those things were but the life-time commonplaces of
South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising
Southern fishers the "bonnet" of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes
Spain--a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe." --EDMUND BURKE
Speak-e! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!" again growled the
Sperm Whale is the mere vapour of the exhaled breath, or whether that
Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Spin me the yarn," said Ahab; "how was it
Spring, the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner centre
Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm
St. Pott's, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a box
Stand by to sway me up!" cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket
Stand by, men; he stirs," cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly
Stand clear of the tackle!" cried a voice like the bursting of a
Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost sapling cannot
Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
Starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern; then stretching
Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side
Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
Starbuck! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon
Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in
Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory
Starbuck," disappears into the cabin
Starbuck. It is the captain's orders--grog for the harpooneer on a
Starbuck; it'll spoil. Be careful with the butter--twenty cents the
Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and
Starting at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly
Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain
Steelkilt leaped on the barricade, and striding up and down there
Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily
Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge
Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's
Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadows
Stern all!' exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw the
Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
Stop!" cried the stranger. "Ye said true--ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder
Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises
Strike the tent there!"--was the next order. As I hinted before, this
Stripped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, and
Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But if
Stubb returned to the Frenchman
Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stood
Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of the whale
Stubb was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence
Stubb's whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was
Stubb, and that's what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the
Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, so officered
Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace the
Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. "Start her, now; give 'em
Stubb, the old second mate, came up from below, with a certain
Sub-Subs! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world
Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh
Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh
Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh
Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man's
Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah
Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether
Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the men
Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
Such, then, was the person that I saw seated on the transom when I
Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up
Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then
Sullenly taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck
Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not
Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him
Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green
Swim away from me, do ye?" murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water
Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the Holy Land
Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to the
THE ANCHORS THERE HANGING
THE BOAT, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if he
THE CABIN; BY THE STERN WINDOWS; AHAB SITTING ALONE, AND GAZING OUT
THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE-TUBS, BETWEEN THE VICE-BENCH AND THE OPEN
THE FAERIE QUEEN
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
THE MAIN-TOP-SAIL YARD.--TASHTEGO PASSING NEW LASHINGS AROUND IT
THE WHALE AND HIS CAPTORS, OR THE WHALEMAN'S ADVENTURES AND THE
THE WHALE NEVER FIGURED IN ANY GRAND IMPOSING WAY? In one of the mighty
THE WHALE NO FAMOUS AUTHOR, AND WHALING NO FAMOUS CHRONICLER? Who wrote
THEY CEASE DANCING, AND GATHER IN CLUSTERS. MEANTIME THE SKY
THIS one--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I
THOMAS BEALE'S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE, 1839
THOMAS JEFFERSON'S WHALE MEMORIAL TO THE FRENCH MINISTER IN 1778
TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT; AHAB, WITH THE REST, CLOSES HIS EYES
Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea. Chartering a small
Take another pledge, old man," said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up
Take it, I say"--holding the tongs towards him--"take it, and taste it
Take the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d'ye mean
Take the hint, then; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself under
Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an
Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on
Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order to bring
Tashtego stood in the bows. He was full of the fire of the hunt. He
Tashtego the Indian's
Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we'd drink
Tashtego--like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well
Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces
Taurus, or the Bull--he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the
Tekel Upharsin" has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage
Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all
Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at
Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and Solander
Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault
That drove the spigot out of him!" cried Stubb. "'Tis July's immortal
That great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given
That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with the far away home I see
That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat righted
That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and
That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man--as his wont at
That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the "Brazil Banks" does
That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships
That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other
That's precisely it," said the landlord, "and I told him he couldn't
That's the way--THAT'S it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating
The Cachalot" (Sperm Whale) "is not only better armed than the True
The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is
The Deck--First Night Watch
The Duke
The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders
The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S
The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are: among
The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye
The Lord be merciful to his ghost! What's that noise there? You, young
The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale, and
The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a
The Parsee!" cried Stubb--"he must have been caught in
The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed
The Pequod's prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she
The Pequod's signal was at last responded to by the stranger's setting
The Pequod's whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head was
The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and
The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a
The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for the same
The WHITE Whale--a Sperm Whale--Moby Dick, have ye seen him
The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid
The White Whale, the White Whale
The White Whale," said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards
The White Whale--the White Whale!' was the cry from captain, mates
The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated
The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one
The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is indisputable; and that the
The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard
The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head
The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the
The barbed steel, and every turn attends
The beef was fine--tough, but with body in it. They said it was
The birds!--the birds!" cried Tashtego
The black vomit wrench thee!--run all of ye above, alow, cabin
The boat soon picked them up. The poor bumpkin was restored. All hands
The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a
The boat! the boat!" cried Starbuck, "look at thy boat, old man
The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads--a
The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side, where
The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales
The boats!--stand by
The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump
The central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping
The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
The chicha! the chicha!' cried Don Pedro; 'our vigorous friend looks
The chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a
The circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other--I
The corpusants have mercy on us all," cried Stubb, again
The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention
The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and more
The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling
The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal
The devil he does," says I. "Where is that harpooneer? Is he here
The drama's done. Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one
The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut
The eternal sap runs up in Ahab's bones again! Set the sail; out oars
The face of my Deliverer God
The fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all
The fellow's impious! What art thou sneezing about
The ferrule has not stood, sir," said the carpenter, now coming up; "I
The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese
The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness
The first uprising momentum of the whale--modifying its direction as
The fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during an
The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: "Every fact seemed
The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and all
The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to
The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and
The gallows, ye mean.--I am immortal then, on land and on sea," cried
The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a
The gold brow plumbs the blue. The diver sun--slow dived from noon--goes
The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling pan
The great live squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld, and
The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser," muttered Ahab, advancing
The grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished the whales from
The harpoon dropped from his hand
The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that," answered the
The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting
The harpoon, too!--toss over the litter there,--d'ye see it?--the forged
The harpoon," said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one
The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth
The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small
The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there lay Queequeg
The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the one tackle is
The hours wore on;--Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the
The huge Leviathan to attend their prey
The ineffaceable, sad birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of
The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the
The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming
The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to
The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is evinced
The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
The life-buoy--a long slender cask--was dropped from the stern, where it
The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly
The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth
The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even
The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long
The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward from
The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these
The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see
The lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb
The measure! the measure!" cried Ahab
The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of oil
The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my inability
The more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up
The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the
The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the
The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of
The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special
The ocean serves on high
The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
The old man's hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the
The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great
The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold
The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish
The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had
The pale Usher--threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette
The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought
The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case with
The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other side
The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel
The predestinated day arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick
The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm
The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all the
The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as those
The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture
The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you
The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a
The report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly
The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with
The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of
The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious
The ribs and terrors in the whale
The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved with
The ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from the neck
The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were
The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat. The oars were
The rods! the rods!" cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to
The sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before
The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale
The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
The scud all a flyin
The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab
The sharks! the sharks!" cried a voice from the low cabin-window there
The ship named after him was worthy of the honour, being a very fast
The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a
The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rolling
The ship! The hearse!--the second hearse!" cried Ahab from the boat
The ship's company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called
The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of
The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied
The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise
The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
The story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his
The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its ultimate
The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and ere
The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more
The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard. A
The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a
The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting
The try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the most
The ungracious and ungrateful dog!" cried Starbuck; "he mocks and dares
The unmannerly Dutch dogger!" cried Stubb. "Pull now, men, like fifty
The vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of the
The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order
The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and
The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days
The waves, too, nodded their indolent crests; and across the wide trance
The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a moment
The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you
The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet." --BARON CUVIER
The whale! The ship!" cried the cringing oarsmen
The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of air
The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first
The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel
The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried
The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers together
The wind was piping free
The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, is to let
The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel
Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck's tears the glue
Then God keep thee, old man--see'st thou that"--pointing to the
Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions
Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its
Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild
Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered something
Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning
Then turning--the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot
Then, again, in mountainous countries where the traveller is continually
There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are
There are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living
There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true
There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats (presumed
There are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers--the whale
There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! look
There go flukes!" was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales
There go flukes!" was the cry, an announcement immediately followed by
There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to play
There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman. "One daft with
There goes three thousand dollars, men!--a bank!--a whole bank! The bank
There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer
There it is again--under the hatches--don't you hear it--a cough--it
There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over the leaves
There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
There now's the old Mogul," soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, "he's
There seemed but little in the words, but the tone conveyed more of deep
There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of the
There seems some ground to imagine that the great Kraken of Bishop
There she blows--she blows!--she blows!--right ahead!" was now the
There she breaches! there she breaches!" was the cry, as in his
There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the benches, and a
There was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about the appearance of
There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all
There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all in
There's a pretty fellow, now," he banteringly laughed, standing in the
There's a sight! There's a sound! The grey-headed woodpecker tapping
There," said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest
Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it
Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by the bodily
Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes, when
These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a
These pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very
These reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that
These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound forward
They have, they have. I have seen them--some summer days in the
They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the high and mighty
They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at ease
They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the
They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all
Think of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink
Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horrible
Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the horrible
Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and
Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black
Third: I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in the whale
This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed
This arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts. First
This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of
This fundamental thing settled, the next point is, in what internal
This is the priest, he brings you the Evangelists,' said Don Sebastian
This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the
This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its designation
This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of. Carpenter
This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the
This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or
This terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their
This text is a combination of etexts, one from the now-defunct ERIS
This was the tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating
Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great numbers
Thou Bildad!" roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the
Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck," he said lowly to the mate
Thou knowest best," was the sepulchral reply, "the seven hundred and
Thou lookest like it,' says the Captain, 'there's thy room.' Jonah
Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the
Though Stubb did not understand the BOUTON part of the inscription, yet
Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale
Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks
Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming round
Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living Leviathan
Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot
Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion
Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic
Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance
Though not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death peril
Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest
Though there are no Auto-da-Fe's in Lima now,' said one of the company
Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his
Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
Though, upon the whole, I greatly admire and even love the brave, the
Three points off the lee bow, sir
Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze to
Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and
Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse
Thunder splits the ships
Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle
Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson
Thus the whale-line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils
Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings
Thus, while in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror
Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among
Tish! the bucket
Title: Moby Dick; or The Whale
To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affection I now felt
To express unwieldy joy." --COWPER, ON THE QUEEN'S
To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of this
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are
To me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine
To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
To scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of this
To the finny people's king
To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may
Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received
Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and
Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down to
Tower of London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of
Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old Scotch Sibbald, and
Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it
Try Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept
Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah's flood he
Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our
Turkey--the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the
Turn to!' roared the Captain
Twas not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at the least
Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. "Take
Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters
Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like
Until the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial
Up helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest of
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about
Upon hearing the frantic project of their leader, each in his own
Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction
Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold
Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, and
Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more
Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his
Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his
Upon this, he told me another story. The people of his island of
Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the
VOYAGER TO THE ARCTIC OCEAN
Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became
Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St
Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey--why is it that upon the
Very good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's
Very often do the captains of such ships take those absent-minded
Vishnoo himself for our Lord;--Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten
Vishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical books
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
WALLER'S BATTLE OF THE SUMMER ISLANDS
WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming one of the boats
WHALE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN." BY OWEN CHACE OF NANTUCKET, FIRST MATE OF
WHALE'S BIOGRAPHY, GATHERED ON THE HOMEWARD CRUISE OF THE COMMODORE
WHALE.... It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. WALLEN; A.S
WHALE; II. the RIGHT WHALE; III. the FIN-BACK WHALE; IV. the HUMP-BACKED
WHALE; V. the RAZOR-BACK WHALE; VI. the SULPHUR-BOTTOM WHALE
WHARTON THE WHALE KILLER
WILLIAM COMSTOCK. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE WHALE-SHIP GLOBE NARRATIVE
Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the
Wall," said the landlord, fetching a long breath, "that's a purty long
Wants with it?" said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat's bow
Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal
Watching the boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to the
Water!" cried the captain; "he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to
We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working loose
We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks I
We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to
We trust the important charge, the petticoat
Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker
Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world
Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale
Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go
Well, what's the report?" said Peleg when I came back; "what did ye
Wellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular
West Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them
Wet the line! wet the line!" cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated
Whale are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whales regularly
Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower; and so
Whale in particular, I was much struck with a plate representing the old
Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines
Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon
Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's
Whale's mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and
Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly
Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master." In one of those plates the
Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the
Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,--though
Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to
Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his
Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering insanity
Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the cleft
Whale; and that for half a century they were the only people of the
Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the
Whales in the sea God's voice obey." --N. E. PRIMER
Whales, and there was also then given the probable cause inducing those
What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but
What became of the White Whale?" now cried Ahab, who thus far had been
What could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit is ever this earth's
What d'ye see?" cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky
What dat do wid de 'teak," said the old black, testily
What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?" said I, now jumping on the
What do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whale
What do you want of me?' cried the captain
What in the devil's name do you want here?" roared the Guernseyman
What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
What lay does he want?" groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in
What now?" said the Guernsey-man to Stubb
What now?" said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to
What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he
What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in
What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his next
What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the
What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What India
What will the owners say, sir
What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod
What's the matter with you, young man
What's the matter with your nose, there?" said Stubb. "Broke it
What's the matter? He was heading east, I think.--Is your Captain
What's the old man have so much to do with him for
Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected with
When Brahma, or the God of Gods, saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate
When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over the
When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by
When dis old brack man dies," said the negro slowly, changing his whole
When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward
When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable
When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South
When he stirs in the spicin
When in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and
When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive
When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales salute MORE HOMINUM
When the entire ship's company were assembled, and with curious and not
When the last echo of his sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the
When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted
When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went
When you see him 'quid," said the savage, honing his harpoon in the bow
Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon the island of
Where away?" demanded the captain
Where's that girl?--there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell
Wherefore, among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to
Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his
Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm
Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a
Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the
Whether fagged by the three days' running chase, and the resistance
Whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away to far
Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had
Which through their gaping jaws mistake the way
While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the
While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking
While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawk
While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log
While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
While the bold harpooner is striking the whale
While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was
While the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after
While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes
While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off his
While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the
While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his
While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping a
While yet the wondering ship's company were gazing upon these strangers
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
Who's Old Thunder?" said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness
Who's got some paregoric?" said Stubb, "he has the stomach-ache, I'm
Who's there?" hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round
Who's there?' cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making
Why did the Dutch in De Witt's time have admirals of their whaling
Why tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more
Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain
Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely
Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
Why," said I, "he's a member of the first Congregational Church." Here
Why," said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, "you
Wild, the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of
Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don
With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the
With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these
With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an
With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming
With back to the stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own
With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like
With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of "The
With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world
With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift, the
With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him
With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as
Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics
Won't the Duke be content with a quarter or a half
Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!" screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some
Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of
Would to God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, mingling
Would'st thou brand me, Perth?" wincing for a moment with the pain
Wretched entertainment at the sign of 'The Trap
Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water
Yes, I may as well," said the surgeon, coolly. "I was about observing
Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy
Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the word, to the faithful
Yes, rather oddish,' said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length
Yes, the world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete
Yes, this must be ginger," peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then
Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to
Yes," rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be
Yes," said I, "we have just signed the articles
Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding the fact that
Yet the grey Manxman--the oldest mariner of all--declared that the wild
Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been
Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when
Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain
Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods
Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea
Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine
You are a coward!' hissed the Lakeman
You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not
You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose," said I, trying to gain a little
You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale
You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
Your hat, your hat, sir!" suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who
Zealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without
Zealand head--a ghastly thing enough--and crammed it down into the bag
Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before the London Geological Society
a Gothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest
a Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black
a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed on the
a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled "A Voyage round Cape Horn
a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of
a TEENTH of it, you will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and
a Titanism of power. On the contrary, those motions derive their most
a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul
a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, after the
a boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of
a breach in the living wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only
a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow
a charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented
a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints, seemed like the
a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good will
a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at the beginning at
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
a continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the
a copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head
a corpse, and plunging into that blackness of darkness, seemed the
a course excludes the coming onset from the whale's sidelong vision
a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies. All
a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
a dead whale, a conquered fortress, with the flag of capture lazily
a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless
a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never
a dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the
a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the
a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his ears
a few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters,--furrowed
a frock, and the hole is stopped
a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him
a glass and a bottle in the air
a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul breeze
a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a green
a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of pleasantness
a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain in the
a great tree, when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it, and
a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. For all
a heavenly enthusiasm,--"But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of
a hump--Oh, DO pile on the beef--lays like a log! Oh! my lads, DO
a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days' old Congo
a leg, that's all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live
a little experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word
a little lower layer. If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
a living opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality
a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
a long cord. Just so, from the ship's steep side, did I hold Queequeg
a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of
a long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down
a long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where he lives, and
a member of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with
a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the
a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing
a moment. The cabin lamp--taking long swings this way and that--was
a monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and
a muffled mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like
a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking that the vane or
a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent helm--nigh
a plain--makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that
a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker's needles
a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the
a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton; as it is by far the
a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin
a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the blade
a roaring Lion, lies in the path--he gives a few fierce bites and surly
a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have tasted
a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire
a sagacious lawyer like Prynne. But is the Queen a mermaid, to be
a seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most
a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why the decks never
a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may
a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than the rider. Though truly
a still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself nor
a stroke, with immense velocity." --JOHN HUNTER'S ACCOUNT OF THE
a surf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in
a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath--"The
a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. All at once
a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight. Not so much thy skill, then, O
a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in
a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
a tufted point, where the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like the
a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship
a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number of
a watch-coat; but properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more
a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship. By
a well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while the other
a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had
a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of Moby
a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we
a white man--a whaleman too--who, falling among the cannibals, had been
a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate
a'shiver;--out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles
abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if
abandonment of the time and the place; but while yet all a-rush to
abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I have the heart to
abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was the best and most
abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb
aboard; never mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohog there--what's
abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South
abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a
abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
about giving chase to whales in the distance. The harpoons and lances
about her. Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and calms
about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
about him,--"Captain Bildad--come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the
about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such
about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his
about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim
about the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters
about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of that, I dare
about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to
about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along the
about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. But
above them in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered
absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For sleeping man
absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover nothing but
accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and
accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath
accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if
accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently
according to Genesis, the angels indeed consorted with the daughters of
according to the prophecy. Didn't ye hear a word about them matters and
account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom. Nor in the
account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that prudent
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by
accounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great
accounted good. Ahab's hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and
accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a
accursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of
achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
acquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare mention
acquainted with, still I ascribed this--and rightly ascribed it--to the
acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders
across Stubb's bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were
across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French
across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It is
across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer
across the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last
across them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whispered
act of the grief of his life's drama
act of tossing overboard the clumsy wooden block, it caught under one
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth
actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same
actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the spars and
added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for the
added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest boiler, and
additional turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its
adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland--no fire at all--the landlord
admirable artistic contrast, is the glassy level of a sea becalmed, the
admirably correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of the Sperm
admitted us in order to shut us up. Keeping at the centre of the lake
admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all the congregation
admonished to keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of the
adoration! for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round
adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side
adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of the missing
advance--as the whale sometimes will--and Ahab was fairly within the
advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!" Forthwith
advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with the double view
adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing, that
affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are
afford the ground for far other delineations. These are hieroglyphical
afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the
afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic
aft with the stranger's flanks. Though in the course of his continual
aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where thou
after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees of red
after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the
after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and
after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase
after the power which first moved it is withdrawn
after we were all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some
after, lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it
afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey, the
afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers
afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg
afterwards, perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly
again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot and
again rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this
again sent forth its vapoury spout; while, suspended from a bough, the
again to meet the sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of the peril
again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the
again, by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again
again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen shirt, caught in the
again. Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
again; and his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even
again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the whalemen seem
against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing mate
against all rule"--pointing at it with the marlingspike--"that is the
against him. We were thus placed in the most imminent danger, as this
against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
against the express counsel of the captain, upon resuming the head
against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old Roman tiles and
against the proceedings of the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's
against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty the
against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale, marked
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering
against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for
against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw. Does not
against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
against the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good
against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man's eyes
age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable
agent, now became the living instrument. If such a furious trope may
ago is it since you said the very contrary? Didn't you once say that
agony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the shock
ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the
air or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice
air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the
air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant
air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the
air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply
air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks. But the bird has a
air. To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had
air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the lacings of the
air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame
akin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the
alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away
alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these
ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares; up
alert hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian
alike--for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and
alive, man--the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat--both
all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun; two thirds
all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honour. And
all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, "Stick to the boat
all animals the whale alone should have degenerated
all but certain from the fact that, at intervals during the passage
all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of
all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, like one trodden under foot
all day in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the
all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He only
all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In a
all his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt
all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-coloured
all in the family too;--sharp frost this morning, ain't it? Good-bye to
all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before magnetic
all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the
all our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a
all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, his steady
all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in bed
all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its
all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and marring the
all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the
all sail--stunsail on stunsail--after the missing boat; kindling a fire
all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
all the 25,000 miles of this world's circumference, not an inhabitable
all the English, collectively, in ten years. But this is a harmless
all the better off for it. A soul's a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon
all the inns where the ship's company were stopping, that their chests
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came
all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let them be, sir
all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human
all things makes the sounding-board is this--there's naught beneath. And
all this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be
all thou breathest. Aye, and say'st the men have vow'd thy vow; say'st
all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing
all wrong. It looks more like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the
all, but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had been
all, down the throat of the tempest
all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air
all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall touch
all; they succeeded in gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily
allies, who at once claimed the honour of securing a man who had been
almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the
almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish
almost wholly by Polynesians. In the short gam that ensued she gave
aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island negroes, with
along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap
along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while
along with ye." And so saying, he led the way below deck into the cabin
along, and in obedience to the word of command, came to a dead stop on
along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and homeward-bound
along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the
alongside the whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there
alongside. As we glided nearer, the stranger showed French colours from
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for
also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the
also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in
altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest
altitude of the final rib, "How now!" they shouted; "Dar'st thou measure
altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be
altogether beneath the surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out
always afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the
always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail
always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the
am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby done
amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between
amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottom
among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered appalling
among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
among the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double
among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there
among the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental isles
amours in the deep
ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of the
an attentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
an external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered
an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see
an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a
an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both hands grasping the
an instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of
an iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the
an object of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that the priests
analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it
anchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes the other watch. Stand
anchor; and when the proper time comes--some few days after the other
ancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I
ancient Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale; and vice versa; certainly
ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here appearing, these
ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as
ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped
and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief mate, Peleg
and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft
and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin
and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water
and Ifs eternally. Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while
and Jimimi! here's Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he
and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they are
and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern
and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times
and a ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and
and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and after the
and all the world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat
and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders, the
and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one of his
and anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own
and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the
and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: "Thou hast
and at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and
and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his
and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. After many
and at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape
and awe, to the wild, strange tales of Southern whaling. Nor is the
and bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman
and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the headsman of
and being laid upon the printed page, I have sometimes pleased myself
and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk is very sweet
and both of them could not be first, for the ladder would but admit one
and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the immediate
and break out in the main-hold
and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands, battled with virgin
and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the
and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost
and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studded
and dominion of individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of
and draw the poles, ye harpooneers
and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him
and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab's boat. Only one
and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first man that ever
and endearments of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and
and enlightened gourmand, who nailest geese to the ground and feastest
and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in all the pomp of six
and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion
and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not painful
and extracted the dart
and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of the
and far more portentous--why, as we have seen, it is at once the
and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as if leading two different
and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans
and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemed to be the
and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all
and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at
and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem
and general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting
and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! The crew, man, the
and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by the spring
and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved. The greenhorn had gone
and glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames
and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my friends, but this
and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental
and grapnels; and with the microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck
and half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain
and half-melted sleet of the storm from which he had some time before
and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the
and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon
and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that
and he was left alone in the place
and headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours
and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a swinging
and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style
and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that though Moby
and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the slide
and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it
and holy as the hills.--But the story
and honour demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag
and how to save all hands--how to rig jury-masts--how to get into the
and immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the
and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some
and in the morning, I'll see how this plaguey juggling thinks over by
and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined
and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the whole world-wide
and inward presentiments were his. And if at times these things bent the
and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that
and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships. No
and line because when the fish made off with them, it (the fish
and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the two
and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world. This soothing
and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the
and married the maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit, rarely
and medicament. It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays
and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in
and more appals him. The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry
and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last
and more essential particulars. Thus, the sperm whale and the humpbacked
and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping heave of the
and more upon Java Head, the look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and
and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise! Good night--good
and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with their own
and nails, and so nail it to the mast
and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The unharming sharks
and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence be had
and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book. Come, Almanack! To
and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the
and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the
and picked me up at last. It was the devious-cruising Rachel, that in
and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame being
and progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various
and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three
and resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the
and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm, the
and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I
and robbers, is the right to royal fish, which are whale and sturgeon
and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful
and round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which
and running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and
and sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be
and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During the
and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sun playing
and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight
and simultaneous industry of almost the entire ship's company, the
and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first
and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on the homeward
and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces
and some do not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth
and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order to
and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so
and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the
and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city of
and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the
and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to
and sublime, there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea
and suggest another. I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so-called
and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine old Dutch savage, Albert
and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed
and swerve about, uncertain where to go at last. And by the eternal
and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he would
and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope in the
and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thou hast
and that still more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near
and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was not
and that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org
and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger
and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A division which
and the White Whale's barbs were then tempered
and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as
and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
and the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the
and the end of that thing--be that end what it may. Oh! my God! what
and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the butterfly cheeks of
and the great Austrian Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome
and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to
and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other
and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir
and the line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events, be
and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial, I
and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among the
and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the cabin-scuttle,--his
and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the lovely
and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes
and the pulpit is its prow
and the sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, and
and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed, forbidding
and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it
and the three boats swung over the sea like three samphire baskets over
and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the boats. But
and the yards he measures about the waist; only think of the gigantic
and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten to jam
and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea--what matters
and then we stash it if we can. Hem! I'll do the job, now, tenderly
and then, whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be
and there's a great cry for life-boats. And here's the heron's leg
and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon the wrinkled
and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable; while still, in his
and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then, that they
and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship
and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own
and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were thrown open
and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits were
and toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which
and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines
and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a
and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from first to
and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the
and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over into the
and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!--"Sail on
and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads of the warp
and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch in
and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors
and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds, might be
and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship
and while peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the
and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at any
and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian
and wilted quite. Ah me!--not thou nor I can bear the change! How
and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets
and with that he soon mounted to the deck. There a queer scene presented
and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger captain
and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em. They keep a Whale's Rib
and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb
and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
and, I would add, possibly called "The Whale," as some craft are
and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing
and, in a commercial point of view, so important an animal (as the Sperm
angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a
angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed
angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent
animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen
anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
anon, unrestingly pacing the planks
another elephant, that when wounded in the fight, curved round his trunk
another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the
answer to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he
antediluvian point of view. Applied to any other creature than the
anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, somehow and somewhere; else the
antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from the
antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the
anvil--the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights
any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings
any of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then
any one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by
any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking into the hold
any parson a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a
any plummet--'out of the belly of hell'--when the whale grounded upon
any point in precisely the same time
any social acerbities, or know the slightest ill-humor or envy! Come
any till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them
anything else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Roman
anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the
anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen by his living
anywhere in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors
anywhere near. And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of
apothecary, sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by
appal the stoutest man who so pitied
apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about
apparition of the sperm whale's vast tail, fanning into eddies the air
appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of fine
appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
appellation of the White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified by
apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the hereditary
applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
applied, according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm
apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt--above all for
approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East, dotted
archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for astronomical
archangel forthwith opened all his seals and vials--devoting the ship
archangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that
arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay
are Ahab; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe
are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event--in the living act, the
are carried on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profound
are dead? But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets
are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be
are good fellows enough. So, so; there you are now; that's the stroke
are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look
are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are plainly
are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale, both to
are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamen taking their
are not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland
are not those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-hole
are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom; making
are only five more hands come to help us--never mind from where--the
are outlaws, even in the lawless seas
are refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them thus
are the lads that always live before the wind. They are accounted a
are these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fishery
are very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the
are--here they go--all alive:--Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull
argue the point with him
arm thrown round me. But at length all the past night's events soberly
arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called
arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed
arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the
arm," cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him
arm? But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boy
arms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has
around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment
around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas that are
arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the
arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the
arrested by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a
artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as the
articulated bones. In fact, as the great Hunter says, the mere skeleton
artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck
artist--is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting
as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when the
as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it is; or
as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the
as another current from the rickety door met the one from the window
as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more
as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of
as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
as if it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the
as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim
as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one
as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on the
as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells like the left
as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the
as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that small section of him is
as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there. The
as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain's more
as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old
as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield; and full of barbaric spirit
as the Lord Warden's." Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful
as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would
as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though the certainty of this
as the ancient Medes. I peered and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her
as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary
as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up--my God! poor
as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around
as the lowering of the boats from the deck, this had not unreasonably
as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the sea-gods
as the rind does an orange, so is it stripped off from the body
as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them, like the
as they shot on their way, till at length the whale somewhat slackened
as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand
as to things to come--their two captains in themselves impersonated the
as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live blood would
as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her
as whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the
as you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
as you would have me do to you in the like case. For YOU too have a boy
ascribed to a kindred cause. And so too, all the added moodiness which
ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily
ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the
ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of
askance, and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass
asked for water--fresh water--something to wipe the brine off; that
asked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was
aspect of the completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I
aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of
aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he being
aspersion has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout
assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the
assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on
assigned captain of one of the gangs; consequently he should have
assistance and protection. To this aggregation of the Sperm Whale into
assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three
astern the billows rolled in riots
astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge; the sail
astern. Stubb's inexorable back was turned upon him; and the whale was
astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited
astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting
at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as the customary
at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any
at intervals, however rapid, sending its affrighted moisture into the
at its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and his tools
at least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas
at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth. But even
at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttled shriek you
at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great
at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling
at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with vast
at the capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb
at the largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, were
at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that at last
at the mast-heads of the whaleships, now penetrating even through
at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it. The mincer
at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the
at the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's
at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold fast
at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging were
at the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into our
at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down
at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the unspeakable terrors of
at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland
at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where all manner
at, that such things should be. Instances where the lightning has
athwartships against the rear of the Try-works
attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of the
attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore the
attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale
attached. And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb
attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the first engraving a noble
attempt at a right whale's head. Be that how it may, there stands the
attempts to explain the mystery. Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle
attend to, waking or sleeping, breathe he must, or die he will. But the
attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead
attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only in the
attest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your
attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in
attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The sailors mark
attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as
august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but
august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness
author avers that the Earl of Leicester, on bended knees, did likewise
authority. But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great
auxiliary material. But, besides the application to him of the generic
available to the systematizer as those external ones already enumerated
avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful and
avoid all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly
awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship's
awarded it to the plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it
away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking out a most
away behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the
away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all
away with the cutting-spade in him; and while the free end of the rope
away with where the all-seeing sun himself could never pierce you out
away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's bottom as the seat slid from
awful lesson which Jonah teaches to ME, as a pilot of the living God
aye, take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever
aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle! Oh! he ain't
baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that
back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his old
back to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you
back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and livingly
back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great part of the
backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the
bailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most
bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull
baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren
bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's topmost back. Nothing
baptised. What then is the whale, which I include in the second species
barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the
barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously
barbed iron from one side of the world to the other
barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea
bare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That's my
barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the "crown," and the
barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get
bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in
battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing
battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every
battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean overruns the
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were
bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object
be a consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so
be all the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live
be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of
be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For
be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. This
be king of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen
be left on the larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to
be more hideous than a caged tiger, then. I could not endure the
be more tolerable for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching
be some way of muffling the noise; hinting something indistinctly and
be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew. When the Romans
be the matter. I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door was
be the next thing to heaving up the anchor
be the whale's, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta
be unmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter
be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in Arctic
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his
beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have
bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporary
bear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to
bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I
beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now hunted in the wake of the great
beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when sent for
because blackness is the rule among almost all whales. So, call him the
because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically relieved at
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no
because the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood
because the white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one
because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily into the
become entangled in the harpoon-line that he towed; he had also run
become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice
become mothers. The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth
become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the
bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up
bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this crater--in
bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing
bed, though it was only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st June
bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half
been born son to Charlemagne's father. But Radney, the mate, was ugly
been declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could
been deemed one of the spare boats, though technically called the
been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly back from the
been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by
been ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one
been offered the 200th, considering I was of a broad-shouldered make
been on its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe
been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present
been taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a
been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help himself, this
been twigging it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with
been very long prior to the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he
been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned
bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on
before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the
before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched
before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his leg
before it. Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to
before the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of the
before the house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a polished
before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
before the resurrection fellow comes a-calling with his horn for
before the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were
before the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a
before the wind, some few weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded
before the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman of the
before this skeleton--brushed the vines aside--broke through the
before us, for there is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not
before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard, loudly
before us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And
before--the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea
began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
began the Englishman. "I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time
began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area
begin: there's Aries, or the Ram--lecherous dog, he begets us; then
beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained
begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and the contrasting
beheld the Antarctic fowl
beheld. As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the
behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam. "He must show that he's converted
behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar's surcoat
behind his back. I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come. Dropping
behind the foremast to try it. It tasted something as I should conceive
behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea
behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the
beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun
being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies all over the
being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the
being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the
being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all
being posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though
being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony
being the original inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous
being very old and feeble at the last accounts. He answered no, not yet
believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account
believed by some whalemen, that the Nor' West Passage, so long a problem
bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me
belonging to the species of uncapturable whales, because of its
below the surface, his life may be said to pour from him in incessant
below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance
below to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but
below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in the merchant
beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian's
beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like Ahab's
beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured in the
beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish
beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed
beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to rise and blow
berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the
berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep. But the
beset by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queer
beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that
besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the
besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew
best and severest endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the
best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales, for
best man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-head
best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a close. Captain
better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best. All Beale's
between the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has
between the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly and
between the two men
between them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the heroes
between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertain twilight
between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even
between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine of the
beware of Ahab--there's something there!" Then unconsciously using the
beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this, there still seems an
beyond the whale's place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing
beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged waters, went
bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of a
bigness of a human head. This particular feat of the shark seems all
bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for
billows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to
billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body
binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there, and horizontally
binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass
biscuits were then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water
bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in
black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three
black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great mundane
blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after
blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain is very
blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life and passion in the
blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When the proper
blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan. Sideways
bleached bone. What the devil's the matter with me? I don't stand right
bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded. And, by and by, it
blend with, and lengthen Ahab's. As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped
blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat struck as
bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea
blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as before. Ah
blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to light the
blinding palpableness must have been the cause
blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and their glorying crews
blinds," or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and
block, to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of the
blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, I do not think I
blood there. The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel
blood which began to flow from the carcass--the rabid creatures swarmed
blood--bring the thermometer!--it's at the boiling point!--his pulse
blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the giant
bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their leader, ere
bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some such fancy as the above seemed
bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's
blow her homeward; seeks all the lashed sea's landlessness again
blow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed
blow the fire
blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end. This
blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away
blue hanging tester of smoke, illuminated by the flame of the new-lit
blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring the
blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered
board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment
board, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to the
boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by his foreign
boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of
boat's bow, and with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting
boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub, nearly
boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a dashed
boat, he would do what he could to help them, by pulling out the lighter
boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in the
boat, the gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to
boat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the
boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became
boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long
boats in that storm. Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew
boats obeyed not the command
boats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's
boats the advantage, and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick
boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
boats, by this time relieved the Indian at the main-mast head. The
boats--ere going in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite
boats. But all their pains seemed naught. Though lifted to the very
bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greenland
bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents. How
body being submerged beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from
body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two
body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange. Just so with the head
body, a little behind the side fin. You would almost have thought he was
body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such was
boiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the
books the same. The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the
boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the
boomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the invisible
booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
boots. But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transition
born into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think
borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings. Between the marble
both hands--"Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
both the palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or
bottom of the sea
bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan--do you suppose that that
bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all
bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fell
bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on
bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to the milk
bound round the world! Tell them to address all future letters to the
bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas
bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards
bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by their
bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale's head while yet
bow; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather
bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or
bowing to each Captain in succession--"Do you know, gentlemen, that the
bows instead of the stern
bows into the cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at her
bows looked bearded. Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan
bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon
bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the
boys! (THE HALF OF THEM DANCE TO THE TAMBOURINE; SOME GO BELOW; SOME
braces--though not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast
brain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative
branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying
brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly noted
brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the
brave hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come
brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then
bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe. Nor
brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but the mere negative, feminine
breadth of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and
break. But now when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten her
breakers. But high above the flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there
breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith
breakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should not
breaking ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought was the
breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm
breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head
breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the
bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland
brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the
broad bright coin to the sun--"it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D'ye
broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! "Queequeg!--in the name of
broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses
broad palms of the true whale's majestic flukes
broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all
broken back, he toiled away, as if toil were life itself, and the
broken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus' elephants in the
broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate
broken; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk
brought by the lee
brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side. But having plenty
brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some
brushing with its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose
brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly
budding. This won't do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long of
bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all
bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of
bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and with
bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf
bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; the entire
bumping the hull from beneath
buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above the
burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as
buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea
burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man's bolted
burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore
burns; but the chambers of my soul are all in crookedness
burst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat
burstingly broke over its bows, stood in a line along the bulwarks in
business as selling the heads of dead idolators
business of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen men
business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits of
business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlord of
busts of him. It had the same long regularly graded retreating slope
but "The Merchant." In short, this ancient and learned Low Dutch book
but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering down to the
but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary
but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he seldom or
but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes
but by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its
but deliriously transferring its idea to the abhorred white whale, he
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions of
but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer
but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow
but it is often one of the prime redeeming qualities of your man of
but it reminded me of General Washington's head, as seen in the popular
but likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the
but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a common
but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it hung. The lamp
but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the
but nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, however
but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was the leak yet
but not felt. In this central expanse the sea presented that smooth
but obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it
but only as the Anak of the tribe
but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew
but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had
but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly
but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a story of
but the crew's cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort
but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed
but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can't fight it. You see
but the word "clam," Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to
but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just the same with the
but to and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed
but twelve years old, whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving
but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whaling ground) the
but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and for
but we didn't know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled on the
but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about
but which bore not the slightest scarry trace, or any token of ever
but with this difference: about the head this envelope, though not so
but, on the contrary, shall be followed by the joy-childlessness of
butchers over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other's
buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course of time, the
by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not
by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it, and
by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the temple, no Whale can pass it
by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years ago." --IBID
by a whale." --"NARRATIVE OF THE SHIPWRECK OF THE WHALE SHIP ESSEX OF
by far the holiest festival of their theology, that spotless, faithful
by for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell
by half spent billows from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to
by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with look-outs at
by her try-works. She presents the curious anomaly of the most solid
by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically
by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and
by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish are a noisy
by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the
by night and by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent
by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the slightest verbal
by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it
by no means of the full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's
by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose
by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is the
by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery, this whale had
by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale. How to cure such
by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the deeper
by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with thick
by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches
by so doing, irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and
by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless! Would that I could
by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened; and only
by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood
by the Whale at the Base of the Temple
by the by, and then--still minus his trowsers--he hunted up his boots
by the citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of
by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
by the gods. Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant
by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine
by the hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not
by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job." --RABELAIS
by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White
by the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter is
by the tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water into it.* More
by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as he
by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart and centre of
by these two statements may perhaps be respectively elucidated by the
by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it
by yells and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permitting these
by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod could
by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab's bent face
cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil-butt, lashed down to the
cabin-gangway to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that
cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural dislocation
cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same
cables and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck of a
cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a
caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily strength did
calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship
calculated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such
calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's food; and, also, calling
calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, between
call his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right
call the watch. I've the sort of mouth for that--the hogshead mouth
called BRIT is to be found, the aliment of the right whale. But I have
called a CLEAN one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name of
called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed over him
called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he could
called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the
called the "Syren"--made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus
called the crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the present case
called, is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to
calm trouble the ocean til it boil." --SIR WILLIAM DAVENANT. PREFACE TO
calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents
came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the
came directly from the shoal which we had just before entered, and in
came in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends
came on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for
came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work
came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
came to his senses. "Swing the bucket this way!" and putting one foot
came to pass, that he was almost continually in the air; but, as yet
can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains
can't afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for
can't ye? pull, won't ye? Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes
canal, and as that long canal--like the grand Erie Canal--is furnished
cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back
cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the
cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the level
cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the
cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this
cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but
cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the
capable, at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale
cape at present visible, in order the more certainly to hit aright
capricious and unreliable--they live in the varying outer weather, and
captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his
captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines
captain's work, not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had
captain's, on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter. The
captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company. For, though
captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old aldermen
captains, who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights
caravans, so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and
carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean
career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age of
careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the
cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was merely
carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low cabin
carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that night; and to
carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise upon
carried out. So strongly did he work upon his disciples among the crew
carries the everlasting mail
carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains
carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats
carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea
carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon the forecastle
case of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off
case the arm is yours; only let the whale have another chance at you
case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his full
cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall remain on the
casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met; and these were
casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering
cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
cast down from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if
cast his last, cindered apple to the soil
cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no
catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise meridian
catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing
cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy
caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the boat
caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; till at
caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every one of
cause instantaneous death." And however the general experiences in the
cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far
cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and
caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold
cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra
cavity, the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost
caw! caw! caw! Ain't I a crow? And where's the scare-crow? There he
cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which formed its back
centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and with what little
centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by reason of
cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man's
certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities
certain element, which being subsequently brought into contact with the
certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he
certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom--the spring verdure
certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old
certain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the
certainly rather hard-hearted, to say the least. He never used to swear
certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that ground
chains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require
chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years he knows not the land; so
chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the first hail is--"How many
chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the
chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the
chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper
change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long
changed accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequod
chapter of the First Book of Kings
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the
charts of the sperm whale
chase. After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth boat--the swiftest
chased through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deploy
chat just now, and the white whale--shirr! shirr!--but spoken of
chat. For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of sailors
cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's religious obligations
chewed up, crunched by the monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a
chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy; I have read his
chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him; and the captain himself
chiefly lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this
chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale
chiefs, and great people generally, were in the custom of fattening some
children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that I
chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman's head; but the
choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah? But "The
chorus, now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass. When
chronicled--of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the
circle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and
circles began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, the long calm was
circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so his eyes
circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating
circumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White
circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning. So that
circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak of the Tigris
circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he
circumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely
circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of
circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones
circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives
circus-rider might easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have
cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower
citations, I take it--the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of
civilized, domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their
clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had
classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here
clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be. I survived
clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen--that bubbling from the pumps
clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the
clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your
clenched hand. Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back so
cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
climate, so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen
clock in the corner, he exclaimed "I vum it's Sunday--you won't see that
clock's run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to
close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into
close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton
closed eyes sitting straight in his floor-screwed chair; the rain
clothes that the night had wet, the next day's sunshine dried upon him
clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails
clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantly poised on the gunwale
coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs, when Captain Ahab came
coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck." I doubt not the
coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better
coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. I don't like this
cobblestones--so goes the story--to throw at the whales, in order to
cocks in the prairie; he hides among the waves, he climbs them as
cod" with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few moments the
coffin? The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the
cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable obstinacy of
coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though, but so
cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless
collar. Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
columns for the twelve months; and horizontally through each
combat of the four primal elements.--It's a blasted heath.--It's a
combined with the element in which they swim; hence, a herring or a cod
come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In the title-page of the
come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusing
come; they would only answer--"Well, boys, here's the ark
comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of
comes the music; now for it
comfortably seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have
comical things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespeaking his
coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would
coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big
command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the grand political
command. But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to
command; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an
commanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also a
commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who
commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout
commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a
commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon the crew
commanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at
commanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be
commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless terror
commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish heels and
common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own
common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it hangs
common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm a'lee; and then send
common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But the
commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into
commotion. And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of
communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this
compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As a
compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half started--what
compasses pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West
compasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the
compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took
complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year 1842, on
completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are called
completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But this
completing anything. This whole book is but a draught--nay, but the
complied, and then proceeded to wash himself. At that time in the
complied. Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few of his
comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat still for
comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the
comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's Pandects and the By-laws of
comrade's money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed
comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner
concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they recur
conceptions of him are never insulted by the reflection that he has a
concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about to precede
concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous
conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with
concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam
concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the
confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage. Three
confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and surprising forecast
confident that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding
confidential with him, so that the two quickly concocted a little plan
confidently challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set the
confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean only); after
confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning. At
confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of him
confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not
congregation of the dead." Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it
conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the unbidden and unfathered birth
conjure"--here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far
connected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate
connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifications too tedious
connexion. By my retentive memory of the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm
conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family vault
conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on him from
conscious that the old man's despot eye was on them
consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in
consciousness. How is it, then, with the whale? True, both his eyes
consequence, the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more
considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed the flames
considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between
considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and
considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen under
considered, it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and
considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels
considering the unique interior of his head; it has hypothetically
conspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
constellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic
constellations never seen here at the north, been led to think
consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
consternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to
contact with the spout, whether with some scientific object in view
contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls
containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards
containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk
contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal
contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the
contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on
content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to
context, means, that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of
contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no
continental coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure
contingent. Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their
continual lip-quiver. Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished
continually playing, while the natural spout-hole in his head was only
continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that very moment
continued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a
contraction. If this be so, fancy the irresistibleness of that might, to
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the
contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long maritime
contrivances, assuming the exterior--though a little swelled--of a
contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
controllable by the occupant or occupants,--a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations, I have
conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as
convulsively grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern
cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by to get
cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to the
cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was
copper; and all caught their breath, as half swinging--now over the
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
corners. O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulled
corporal animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he
corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter had
corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied by the head to the
corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only its
corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present
cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keep himself
could Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down
could but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still
could grimly live and burn, while the common vitality to which it was
could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world; were the
could help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after once
could not be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it lay
couldn't see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas
countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began
countless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced
countries, which even in these modern days still preserve much of the
courageous, the undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all
course of the ship
course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful
course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose captains
courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead
cowardly--quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip the
cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four miles
craft than the Pequod
craft. He called it the SLEET'S CROW'S-NEST, in honour of himself; he
crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small
craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in
crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that the animal
crawling through the lubber's hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don't
crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one
cream-colour, lay floating on the water, innumerable long arms radiating
creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in his
creature being held the purest envoy they could send to the Great Spirit
creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland
creature in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it
creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of cuttle-fish
creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with the
creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck
creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he
creatures, round the Horn--all that had not moved this native born
creeps up one's legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are two
crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass--this green
crew all invited guests. He was as particular about the comfortable
crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in the
crew to desist from hoisting the cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose
crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger
crew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into the
crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale
crew, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads
crew--"Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and
crews OF THE SHIP ELIZA Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On the
crews! Well, well; belike the whole world's a ball, as you scholars have
crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes, TWO
cried Peleg. "Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers--it takes the shark
cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near
cried, "That's the Grampus's crew. I seed her reported in the offing
crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east
crippled beggar (or KEDGER, as the sailors say) holding a painted board
crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely castaway, though
criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of analogical
cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine feet; serving to
cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking
crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy in
crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of
crosswise between the outside layers. This triune structure, as much as
crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most effulgent
crowding! Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill up, monsieurs
crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of the partitioned
cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change his
cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the
cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself. His firm lips
cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals
crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten years
crying, "Aloft there, and rig whips and buckets to wet the
cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an excavation in the
curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island
curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day
curious proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in
curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew
cursed jaw; ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there
cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as
cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer. They look much like
cut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose
cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains? Oh
cut the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, still
cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and
cuttle-fish--lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures
dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that's our
dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic
damply tight; while by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the
dancing girls!--the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I
dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped with them from the
danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand
dark den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that
dark night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; look
dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh
dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland
darker with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen
darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated
darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as he
darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
dart it!--'tis in the fish!--Aloft there! Keep him nailed--Quick!--all
darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three Nantucket
darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across the
darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly running off, fettered by the
dashed at the whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking
dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes
dashing it to the deck, "no longer will I guide my earthly way by thee
dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching the
date a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn
dawn, as well as the enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah
dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch--then headed
day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of Labrador
day, when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffe man
day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as if he
daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford
days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At
days' journey across from the nearest point of the Mediterranean coast
days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do
dead body of the whale, you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely
dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did
death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the tiller, but with
death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry
deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home
deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a house. The ship
deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they
deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into
deck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect
deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be
deck; and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes
decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those
declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few
declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they had
declared these things;--the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the
deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman
deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and
defied the worst the pistols could do; but gave the captain to
defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul
deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural terror
degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's
delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord his
delight--who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever
delirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality
deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to
democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the
den; for den dey sink in the sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
dented, like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk. Did
departing. A low advancing hum was soon heard; and then like to the
department and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer
deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion
deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of
depth--reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain. The brain is at
depths of the soul does Jonah's deep sealine sound! what a pregnant
descending for good? How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
descent, fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards. Not a
described. By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively
descried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors, and
descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it is
description of the various species, or--in this place at least--to much
deserts and of griefs beneath the moon. The sun hides not the ocean
designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body
desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, and told
desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land. And as the
desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye
despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again flooded, like
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know, essentially one with
devil fetch the hindmost
devil's chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all
devil-worship, and the expediency of conciliating the devil
devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For himself, he
devouring amputations--but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for
dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea
did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
did it so exhaust him as the previous day's mishap
did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the
did several women present wear the countenance if not the trappings
did survive the wreck
did the Almighty's bidding. And what was that, shipmates? To preach the
did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to
did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale's
did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft
didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a
different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale's there is no great
different nature of the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an
difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured
digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine
digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at length his spade struck
dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the
dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself! The
dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both
dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by
diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction. To trail the
diligently consulting Yojo--the name of his black little god--and Yojo
diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further from the
din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous
dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were
dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with their
directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualities of
directed his operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at
direction, were calculated to do us the most injury, by being made
direction--the ship had not only been necessitated to leave that boat to
directions flowed over his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed
direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are
direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck
discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea
discernible in the whole visible world; which while pauselessly active
discernible; the man being stark dead
discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row; it's
discharged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth indirectly
disclosures between friends. Man and wife, they say, there open the very
discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the
discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit
discovered the island, and there they found an empty ivory casket,--the
discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways
discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with an
disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the necessity for
disinterred in excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's
dismal looking wreck, and THE HORRID ASPECT AND REVENGE OF THE WHALE
dismally resounded through the ship
dismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one. That's
displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the
displayed in the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to
dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of the
disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the
distance between. While in various silent ways the seamen of the Pequod
distance from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with his
distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam
distance of seven miles and more. In those moments, the torn, enraged
distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of
distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the
distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the boat
distended tusked mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be
distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale's
distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel a
district, and the two others to show the number of days in
distrusted by our whaling captains. Nor does it at all diminish the
distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has
divisions of the entire whale host
do murderers go, man! Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to
do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or, "Harry lad, I guess he's the
do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
doctors that of a baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or
does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
does not preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume
doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the
dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg
dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe of the
done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like the
done, he put on dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and leaning against the
double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in the rigging
doubling of the chances. But it very often happens that owing to the
doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is
doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand
down above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my
down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and the
down from the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge
down his motionless flanks into the sea. His heart had burst
down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I suspect
down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the
down into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her
down on tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably
down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time
down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word. Dr. Johnson
down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them--ten in
down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head, and then
down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental
down the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting vigilance over
down there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery
down there, Flask"--pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of
down to "the Moss," the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the
down to a point only.' But now comes the greatest joke of the
down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his
down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of
down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch
down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the water, Queequeg, now
downright bumpkin dandy--a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his
downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He
downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but
downward pointed finger--"Think, think of the blasphemer--dead, and down
downwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime BREACH--somewhere
drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorbed
drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. It is a
dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. In
dragon of the sea," saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale
draughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline
drawing water in the main-chains, all at once shouted out, 'There she
drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the
drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along
drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
dream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through
dreams, and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide
drew nigh the wharf
drew over his swaying flukes, and the lances were darted into him
dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish business
drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as if by magic, the
drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks, from
dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two
drippings, that the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water
driven from the forward part of the ship by the perilous seas that
drives along the leeward land. The port would fain give succor; the port
drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of the
drooping together in the breezeless air. The effect is very fine, when
drooping unstarched sails of the powerless ship, and the inert mass of
drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no more to rise
dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly eyeing
drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; then rise again
drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin
drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you into languor. For the
drugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for
ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts--Grace, I say
during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines
duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention all these
duties:--repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming the shape of
duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the
duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship--widows and orphans
duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to the
dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all
dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail
dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they will
dying--the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring--that strange
dyspepsia; expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it
each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of
each other's track on the cruising-ground itself, even though they
each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
eagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some
eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges
earned it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead
earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly
earth; and 'vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;' when the word of the
earth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a
earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified the whale
earthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the
eastward for the earliest sun
easy--only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the
eddies; one captain, seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S
educated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, but all
effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenly swam
effectually, as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along
effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while
effulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing
eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As
eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to
elephant's brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is as
elephant's trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of
elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout
elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk
elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his
else the ship would bid them good bye
else to be described--this peaking of the whale's flukes is perhaps the
elsewhere. Be it distinctly recorded here, that the Nantucketers were
embarked; and so for ever got the start of their former captain, had he
embarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the
embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since--as
emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat and coat. On the
emoluments incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignment
emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew
employed in unlacing the bag's mouth. This accomplished, however, he
employments should intervene and hold them healthily suspended for the
empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this
enactment, was that of Holland. It was decreed by the States-General in
enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle
enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side strangely
enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to
encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute but the deadliest
encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale
encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then? What befell
encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle
encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from
end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales for
end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it
end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked round upon
end, a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air. More
end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two or three
endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that
endued with a deep natural reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his
endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into
engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various
enjoyments here shall have no children born to them for the other world
enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah. And
enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm
enormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in twain
enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg. They were cramped like
enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out
enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
enough to shade half Xerxes' army. Who can tell how appalling to the
enough, any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to
enrolled among the crew." --NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT OF THE TAKING AND RETAKING
enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged
ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the Right
enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale
enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster's (whale's) mouth, are
enters, and would lock the door, but the lock contains no key. Hearing
enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted
entire morning in this business, carrying the line high aloft and then
entirely conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be able to
entirely loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be still
entitled "A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8
entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however
equal to that of the brain. Under all these circumstances, would it be
equalled by the realities of the whalemen
equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the
equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel
ere going to the try-works, of which anon
ere the White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuck
ere the last chance would for ever escape
erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag
escape being torn from the row-locks
escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin, Stubb
especially as he refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous
especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the
essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful tauntings in Job
essayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down
eternally. In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
even a man's arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
even as Ahab's eyes so awed the crew's, the inscrutable Parsee's glance
even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by two great
even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins
even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that is even now equally
even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible
even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain unsignifying
even to the bloodthirsty item of Povelson, the superstitious belief in
even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a calm, with
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
even--then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her
evening; it has been known to be done in the case of ships actually
event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimes
ever after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters of
ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed
ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and
ever since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble
ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence. Why so? Because a
everlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us
everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the
every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg and Bildad, could attend
every evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his
every eye from the whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was
every eye on the preacher
every killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant
every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the reservation that
every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and fearfulness
every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale--squid or
every way of uncommon value. By the best authorities, he has always been
every woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight
everything in the Pequod was aslant. To cross to the other side of the
everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes
everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors the description
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature
exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's course to be
exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,--the main-mast
example, does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to
exceeded the census of men now in London, and though at the present day
exceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be
exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the slightest variety that I
excellent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more
except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is that
except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper element
excessive temperature of the year
excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
excitement in the forecastle
exclaimed--"That's he! that's he!--the long-togged scaramouch the
exclaimed: "There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one
exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at the top of one's
exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the
exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world
exertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under
exertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the
exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague, when the living are
exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and
exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is
expanded to the breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a
expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of the
expectant,--fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me
expense, the British government was induced to send the sloop-of-war
expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the
experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the
experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a
explained the whole to him
explained the wonder
expressed their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that the
extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works. By a tunnel
extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great
exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the
externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed
extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the
extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder
extremity, causing the waters behind him to upbubble
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure
eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest
eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored
eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought
eye upon the whale, the while I'm gone. We'll talk to-morrow, nay
eye-splice or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of the
eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his, as the
eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared
eyeing the particular object before him. When he halted before the
eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea
eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
eyes out--all befogged and bedeadened with black foam--the whale's tail
eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness
eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not
eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself
eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind at the monumental
eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the
fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St
fabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale. How could one
fabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising
face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art not
face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumber
face from the cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lord and
face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass
face to face with the captain
face; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the
face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe
faced towards the bows of the ship, so that the insider commanded a
faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook
facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is
fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the
fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not
failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale
fainting fit. Up helm, I say--ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Is this the
fairly have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot
faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, then
faithfully cleansed and put away. The great hatch is scrubbed and placed
faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;--it was
fall into the hidden snare of the Indian
families.... Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal
family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beef; his would have
famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century
famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what was the nature of
fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in
fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it to the
far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other
far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful selection
far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in point
far down from within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where
far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it
far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us
far off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that
fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by
fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of junction with
fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf. "Why
fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that when the body has gone
fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, for
father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which
fathoms down, and 'the weeds were wrapped about his head,' and all the
fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in the water like the
favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the way
fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And the drawing
feast given by his father the king, on the gaining of a great battle
feathering the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to
featured in the unbodied air
features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised him for one
features; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he
feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when the whale
feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without so
feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken
feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon
feet should be marshalled among WHALES--a word, which, in the popular
feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the
feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight
felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy; but in
fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and snatch
fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks, are startled by
felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air
female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a stone's
fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to counterbalance any
fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice from
few fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them
few inches beneath them by the cords. By very heedful management, when
few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, the still
fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers
fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation
fiery face thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within
fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his
fifth in length compared with the living body. Of this seventy-two feet
fifty elephants stirring in their litter. Meanwhile the boat was still
fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane. The living
fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky, sun
fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great battles of
files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would
filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and filled
filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the surface. When
finally descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating
find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if
fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were on the closer
finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks, the year's calendar
finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of
finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale
fingers in an artificial covering. "However recklessly the whale may
finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of
fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
fireplaces all round--you enter the public room. A still duskier place
fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the
firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world
firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,--"Take the rope, sir--I give
first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall
first strip of blubber. Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely
first unknown phantom in the other world;--neither of these can feel
fish high and dry, promising themselves a good L150 from the precious
fish's belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel the floods
fish, because he is amphibious. But the last term of the definition is
fish? even the great leviathan himself
fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and
fishermen's names for all these fish, for generally they are the best
fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors
fishery, of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge
fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the
fishery, they usually go by the generic name of Gay-Headers. Tashtego's
fishery; and in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what
fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale's head? For
fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and
five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and
fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It
flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had
flailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two
flakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the
flame but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast
flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the harpooneers
flames, the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the
flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so suddenly
flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster
flash; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near me
flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression, that whatever swift
flaw!" rejecting the last one. "Work that over again, Perth
flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins. Stubb and Tashtego
flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so
flight, with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon the
fling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was
floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea
floating in those latitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased
floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it
floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, the crew
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
floor for a centrepiece. In the forecastle, the sailors had actually
floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted cords
floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the low
flow, whose source is in the well-springs of far-off and undiscernible
flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
flowers can say--here, HERE lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation
flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all these ceaseless
fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter's, and like the
fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to
fluke of an anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the
fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timberheads; and so low
flukes first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was
flukes! No, no; only black water! All ready the boats there? Stand by
flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested whale
flung upon the sea. The jets of vapour no longer blended, but tilted
fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the
fluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous
flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet ahead
flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately sterning
foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head
focus of the glassy ocean's immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks
followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin. The space between the decks
followed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated his
following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the Black Whale
following with his eyes the receding boat--"canst thou yet ring boldly
fond of that diversion. This was the fourth time in my nautical life
foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing more. I
footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into the room
for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does, all the little detailed
for a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more
for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heart
for a thousand pounds; that's the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah
for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck
for already she is on the threshold
for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th
for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its
for both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at all
for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see
for him? Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the
for his poised lance, lo! a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its
for hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck
for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the
for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. Yes, it
for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of the passengers, a
for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the
for the British pound, a unit of currency
for the White Whale, on the White Whale's own peculiar ground; that man
for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented
for the chief mate's desk, where he kept his log; a third time with a
for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men--all hearts
for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the part of the
for the honour of old Gayhead? What d'ye say
for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business
for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the
for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and
for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the
for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers. Not
for the three hundredth lay
for the time. At this juncture the Pequod's keels had shot by the three
for the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
for their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted and
for their sufferings." Again: "At all events, the whole circumstances
for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable
for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had
for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair. What he
for you! What club but the whaleman's can head off like that
for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often cause the
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
for;--the top-gallant sails!--aye, they should have been kept on her all
forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient
force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea, fell over, and
fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet afloat
fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time to think
fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one single
foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the
foremost. Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind
forests of the main. But no longer snuffing in the trail of the wild
forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been in colleges, as well as
forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived
forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the
forgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
form; notwithstanding, they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale
formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last month or two
formation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant searchingly
former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black
former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon
forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors
forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since. At this day Captain
forswears, disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old
forth from the grass over a grave
forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his
forth into the sea, for he knew that for HIS sake this great tempest
forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted
forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious
forward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face
forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after one the
forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the
forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this
foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his
found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his
found in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period
found in the heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink thee of that
found on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner
found, in this life's howling gale? Starbuck! I'll not have the Burtons
foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly
foundering at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of
four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck. But sliding down the
fowl finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; though
fowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old
free to fly. But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering
free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another
freebooters that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
freely given to the waves
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows of
freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of his
frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
freshened; the sea began to swell
freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god, he weaves
freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous masses of
frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned; there
from a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and
from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with the
from above the brows, which were likewise very projecting, like two
from aft,--"Man the mast-heads!"--and all through the day, till after
from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th lay--that
from before the door; your patched boots are stopping the way. So on I
from catching it. He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the
from communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir
from heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad
from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That's strange, thought I
from him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where
from his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to
from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called
from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two
from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
from it. But the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard, she crowded
from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper's head
from my heart. Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good
from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at
from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud
from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the
from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, which put our
from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent lye is
from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe
from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the
from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white
from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope
from the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening
from the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce
from the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to the
from the existence of the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown
from the fair estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly
from the inside. Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary
from the latitudes of buck-horn handled bowie-knives. Yet was this
from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identified
from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe. The helmsman who
from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone
from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale
from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
from the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment
from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its
from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek--"The vial! the vial!" Gabriel
from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think that that was
from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething
from the water that escaped at the lip
from the whale to the stranger. But that did in nowise mend the matter
from the window! the boy's hand on the hill
from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit, and
from this sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousness
from those who had taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that
from under the door
from under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,--top-gallant
frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found glued
full before the wind!--Aloft! come down!--Mr. Stubb, send a fresh hand
full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty feet across
full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer
fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to high Heaven
furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full
furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still
furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a Christian
further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den--the bar--a rude
further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little room, and
further, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters
furthest to windward, was still ranging ahead of the other boats; a
gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season there
gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch
gaped--open-mouthed at times--that the mere sight of such a yawning
gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spout of the
gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that through that
gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks. Projecting from the
gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat. The
gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White
gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the
gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate the
gay cords and ribbons. But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa of
gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he
gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice
gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell; the
genealogies of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the
general joke. There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this
general. As many know, he wrote the history of his own times, a work
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he
gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. For Pliny
gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach
gently landed upon the capstan head. With his ivory arm frankly thrust
gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea; by the sea, from
genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own
geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now almost
gesture shook his lamp-feeder at the other boats
get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial
get the right. Do you know, gentlemen"--very gravely and mathematically
get there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It's a
getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future
ghastliness of others. The continual sight of the fiend shapes before
ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal generations, when the memory of
gift--a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her brother-in-law, and a
gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship three feet at
gills, the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times is
ginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, but
girdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion--most seen
girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the frenzy
give an old wives' darkling hint.--Begone! Ye two are the opposite poles
give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did that
given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only
given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a terrific
gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that
glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort to
glances of man's eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God
glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew
glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if
glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded
gliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from
glimpse of the missing keel had been seen
glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror. But lazily undulating in
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled
glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the hilarious
glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of casks on
glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble
gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged tiger in his
glorious, golden, glad sun, the only true lamp--all others but liars
go diligently along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags
go in pairs,--a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The whaling-pike is
go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan. That ship--well
go the casks to their final rest in the sea. This done, the hatches are
go ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where
go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed boats
gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate
goes round excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the
going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of his
going on, I'll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say--Look
gone down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in the
gone round on their backs. Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing
gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and men
gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to burst from
good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass we
good thing; the more's the pity. So, if any one man, in his own
good-bye! Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr
good-natured hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseen
gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of silver chips
gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents' beds
got rid of, that is; which I don't take to be the fact
governor. 'What business is that of yours,' says the devil, getting
graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among them
gracious in the wind. These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the
gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former years
gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the
grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomless
granted. After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, the whale
granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered slippery
grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book
grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full before
grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But at that moment he is
grass growing in the boat's bottom--and by the Lord, the mast there's
great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all democracy! His
great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild
great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this
great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance will
great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
great majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so
great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
great strength of the masonry
great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as
greatly counter-balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those
green of the groves--why is this phantom more terrible than all the
greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid
greenness; as last year's scythes flung down, and left in the half-cut
grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber, though
grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns
groaned and gasped. Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and
grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take the homage of
ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross
ground that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me
ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural
ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild
ground--so the last long dying spout of the whale
groves of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin
grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces
guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder
guard in the matter of obeying them
guess it's Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don't know what to make
guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo cottage, this Captain
guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for that interval
gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearing
gun had been discharged; and if you noticed the light wreath of vapour
gunwale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery
gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water, while the three
gushing from the whale's heart." --PALEY'S THEOLOGY
habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
had achieved the ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was in
had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never
had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the
had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern; and
had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible
had been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest's children
had been screwed down to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse of
had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative
had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle lamp illuminating it
had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich
had done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical
had he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and the
had illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe
had led them some four or five miles from the ship; and while they were
had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But only
had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the Green Mountains
had not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris. He therefore
had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily
had slipped himself into a sort of bowline secured to the rail, in which
had stung him in the ventricles of his heart. He was in Radney the chief
had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all
had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold
had to pass the flip again, though the savage salt spray bursting down
had to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come close to
hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. The captain
hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast
half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about
half way to meet his doom, after the scene at the rigging, he insisted
half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered
half-erect out of the water, like a rearing horse. From the ship, the
half-starved. This is the reason why most dyspeptic religionists cherish
halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as--much nearer to the ship
halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowls longingly lingered
hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill
hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final
hand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first
hand towards the weather bow, "markest thou not that the gale comes from
hand's breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world was the
hand, out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale
hand, separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase
hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others
hand. And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his shadow
handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity's gift, and that was
handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the
handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all
handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in
handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so
handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by
handling their weapons, and loudly cheering from the heads of their
hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved me
hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates and harpooneers were
hands to the rigging of the boats--collect the oars--harpooneers
hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it
handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark
hanging at the Pequod's stern came into conspicuous relief
hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his spout-hole
hanging to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his
hangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death. The
happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene
happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat. The
happy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber
harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and repaired
harbors, let them fire salutes to the honour and glory of the
hard to answer. Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to
hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water
hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to its
hardly is this done, when--THERE SHE BLOWS!--the ghost is spouted up
hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among
hardly separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air was
hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and
hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing. First take your leg off
harpoon for the White Whale
harpoon was hurled. "Stern all!" The oarsmen backed water; the same
harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow
harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had worked loose
harpoon. In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mug
harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of the
harpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate
harpooneer is striking the whale!" --NANTUCKET SONG
harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the
harpooneer that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his
harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of
harpooneer, must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but--as
harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order
harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been gaining
harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since
harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuary legatees
harpooneers--all kith and kin to noble Benjamin--this day darting the
harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured whales
harpoons, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, because
has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
has been elsewhere set forth--the head embraces one third of the whole
has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an unappropriated corpse
has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The living whale
has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy
has the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when
hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among
hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I
hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,--no friends accompany him to the wharf
hatchway. Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two in
hatchways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down
hated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath
hated whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked
have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
have been told that these were the ribs of whales." --TALES OF A WHALE
have before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump of which
have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely
have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes. At
have every man in the world go about with a small lightning-rod running
have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the
have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have
have lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it
have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
have not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and
have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of
have received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these
have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas and
have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part of the
have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to
have shed distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection
have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where
have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
have thought the craft had two keels--one cleaving the water, the other
have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods
having been a wound--"Well, the captain there will tell you how that
having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue; and though this
having seen large curved bones set upright in the earth, either to form
having the baleen in his mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with
he ain't more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself," muttered the old man
he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled water
he bears. The Albino is as well made as other men--has no substantive
he betrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of the
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the
he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to the meat-market
he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain
he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started to
he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem
he employed the interval in braiding something very carefully in his
he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is
he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he proposed to
he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck being
he gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go--that's the word with
he had a good mind to flog them all round--thought, upon the whole
he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of
he had long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man's
he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and at
he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio. In shape, he differs
he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas
he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!" This the creature? this he? Oh
he lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring
he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through the key-hole; but
he needs, and ye'll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go
he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. At
he presented to her highness a prodigious long horn of the Narwhale
he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting
he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment the light
he quietly approached the pulpit
he recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were
he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but, alas! only to
he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast. But the Pequod was
he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own
he seemed to be in. And thinking the hap-hazard line would get loose, or
he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight
he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side in a
he struck the surface--involuntarily launched him along it, to a little
he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb
he swung as in a loosened belt. Few or no words were spoken; and the
he talks through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say
he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumble aloft, and bestir
he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to his
he was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the
he was going "head out"; that part obliquely projecting from the mad
he would do so--he ought to--justice demanded it; but for the present
he would take the whale head-and-head,--that is, pull straight up to his
he'll charm the ship to no good at last. I don't half like that chap
he's best let alone; don't you think so, Captain?"--glancing at the
head he was studying the mathematics aloft there in that bird's nest
head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Whale's
head like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings
head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the while, her
head was almost on a level with Ahab's heel. From this height the whale
head! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of
head, and reached higher than that. In this attitude the White Whale
head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come; but it
head, continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for ever threw
head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold
head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the
head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought
heads of the lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using my
headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But
headway. Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten or twelve
heaps. To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil
hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say
heard his history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without
heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving
heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay
heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters, and turning over on
heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his
heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements. Thereby
hearse that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter of
hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea. He
hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by
heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the
heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of his angry
heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and
hearth. But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of
hearts. Peering over the side you could just see them (as before you
heat of his first battle; not the dead man's ghost encountering the
heave and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished
heaved the colossal orbs. He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
heaven seemed false to them. Thou saw'st the murdered mate when tossed
heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless he stood, however the
heavily walking the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to
heavy a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored the
heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart. And so it
heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about the
heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape
heavy eye-splice in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty
heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they worked rather slow
heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg
heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German
heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the
heightened by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance
heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit
held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove
helm! Keep her off round the world
helm! let me pass,"--and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward
helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading
helm; for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rolling
helpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seized
helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced. But
her boats; though the only spout in sight was that of a Fin-Back
her crew on board, ere the captain makes himself visible by arriving
her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering
her long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one
her mouth, and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing
her own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket. Squaring
her path towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such
her prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho's leak seemed again
her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated
her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in frosty weather; she
her surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a little
her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod's lee, and
her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--cucumbers is the word--easy
her. So when they were working that evening at the pumps, there was on
heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded bear or
herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of its
herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the prairies, which
herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization. Nor, will the
here at the Equator--denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving
here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
here, Beelzebub, you don't do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord
here, above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale
hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn the devil
hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the
hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a man might rather
heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick
hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and the insertion into it, of the
hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the world is
hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure
hidden handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted
hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I saw
hideously marred about the face--at least to my taste--his countenance
hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word to use in the present
high cliffs. Outside of the bulwarks their eager crews with one hand
high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Whale
higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar
higher you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as
higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before
hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though
hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he's going to Davy
hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its other side;--all these
hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's high seat, the great Sperm Whale
hill?--Crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats
hills. Even now, when the boats pulled upon this whale, and perilously
him a great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning
him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which
him at the first go off of a bitter cold morning
him during the interview
him foolishly fumbling there, the Captain laughs lowly to himself, and
him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonah before
him hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with the maul
him into a foam." --TOOKE'S LUCIAN. "THE TRUE HISTORY
him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank, and a king of
him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge
him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures
him the things he had demanded, "my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's
him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped
him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin. But then
him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby
him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only
him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell
him, and setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight
him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him and put him in
him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus
him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he
him, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven
him, then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and her orphans a
him, then he feels a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom
him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers
him--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night
him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship
him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship--a
him. However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded
him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know'st what to say
him. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does
him; fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on--go on with
him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists. A
himself a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim
himself accordingly. He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though
himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and though to the
himself docked in that queer fashion, he'll sneak off without the poor
himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasing the
himself into his berth, and finds the little state-room ceiling almost
himself might well have been the post-boy
himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to the owners till
himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with
himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general
himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently
himself upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and
himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points
himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. "God keep
himself. As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here's the
himself; there is a sun on the coin--fire worshipper, depend upon it
hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when its
hint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and
hint. So long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing
his Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed--"The
his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly
his art, as the one now alluded to
his boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau
his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a mystical
his body. And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and
his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I looked at the grand
his broken phraseology, now enable me to present the whole story such as
his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, like the worn nap of his
his concubines is striking; because, while he is always of the largest
his course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after
his crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance long upon
his disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the
his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the desert; even then
his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burly-browed utilitarian
his family's heart. It was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of that
his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on the
his foot upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly
his gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his
his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the people had departed
his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an almost
his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the
his hoofs, up and says, 'I want John.' 'What for?' says the old
his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his unrighteous
his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes
his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space
his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a
his little pantry adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the
his long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully
his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and May
his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed
his mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
his oil into the casks and striking them down into the hold, where
his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction
his own father's? Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn
his part of the hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, that sword-fish
his peak; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and
his periodical visits to the upper world. But he cannot in any degree
his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern
his precise expression the devil himself could not catch
his razor, when lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from the bed corner
his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The
his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovely island
his tail are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the
his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in
his trance into that unspeakable thing called his "flurry," the monster
his trumpet he pointed to the wreck
his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other, in the matter
his underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is
his voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had been
his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering
his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee's
his wild exclamations upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance
his--these were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessed
his. And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in
historian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us
historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at
history, 'that he paid the fare thereof' ere the craft did sail. And
hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish
hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
hoisted against the ship's side--about half way out of the sea, so that
hoisted on deck, with all the well known black bone attached to what is
hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate
hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger
hoisted up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under these
hoisting him thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft
hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while the
hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white
hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the
hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself. In
hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon: he esteemeth iron as
hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage
holdest! Well done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He's no more
holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, he
hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked
hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands
hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. 'We sail with the
hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the creature's age
hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the top of the opposite
home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his match
home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is--which was the only way he could
homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the
homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned
honour; I consider it an honour. Listen, wise Stubb. In old England the
hoofs; and turned me to admire the magnanimity of the sea which will
hooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with
hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a
hope. If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil
hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his
hopped over to the Tit-bit; and finally, going on board the Pequod
horizon; while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one arm, like a
horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other boats, unharmed
horizontally, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a little
horn may really be used by the Narwhale--however that may be--it would
horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. Originally it
horribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller smote
horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only do
horror in thee! but 'tis not me! that horror's out of me! and with the
horse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign--the roaring and
hospitable shore. "The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit will be due
hospitality; one touch of land, though it but graze the keel, would make
hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
hour in the morning, and the sun astern
hour, as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the
hours. In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly pleasant
hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But when, after
hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing
hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back
hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that the whale alongside
hovering over the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my
how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the smallest
how few are domed like St. Peter's! of creatures, how few vast as the
how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the
how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, therefore
how?--but the only way's to stash it; so here goes to hammock again
however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung round
howling gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, the masts
howling of the storm. A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
hull close to the vessel's and seen through the darkness of the night
humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen
humped, as though I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled
hundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at the time
hung in hangman's nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais before
hunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one
hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all
hunter, as the great necessities that strike the victory to thee
hurling forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants
hypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist. And besides
ice, swiftly rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a
idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul
ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular
idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless adventure
idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. But though
idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage goes up to the
if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish. Whereas, in the days
if boys there be aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in the Town-Ho
if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been
if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for
if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the
if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a
if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
if you please." Then watching the mate's countenance, he added, "The
if"--and slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the
if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it
if, when the ship had sailed from home, nothing but the dead wintry
ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body
ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out, the
ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening his
ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh the signification of
ignorantly smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with
ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is the
illimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling
illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek
imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united
imitated, I take it, from the like figures on antique vases
immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to
immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some ten feet below the
immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, was the
immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in
immediately shifting his tone he cried--"The corpusants have mercy on us
immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering
immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change
impatiently listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen
imperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him. But
imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the
important interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes
impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on the way by a
impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty Swiss
impression upon Queequeg. Because, in the first place, he somehow seemed
impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baron himself
impressions which each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore
impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming
in Ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of Moby Dick
in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe
in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of
in India. The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endless sculptures of
in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has besooted all the
in a city on one side of a street. But the question returns whether this
in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get
in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only
in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that prompts
in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat
in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In sum, gentlemen, what the
in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing
in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed for a
in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the yet
in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of
in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry
in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the
in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark, and
in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on it
in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done
in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains perfectly
in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless. In this
in awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a
in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of
in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of
in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, the madness, the
in dragging away the larger tubs, so soon as filled with the sperm; and
in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their
in figure, yet the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its dimensioned form
in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the
in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him
in hand, so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired, his
in her nursery; and so, to stout Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's
in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out
in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less
in his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to
in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size
in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Dick, in the
in his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helped
in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it--it may be--a
in it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the subtle
in its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as those
in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere the
in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part
in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist. He swims in
in length. Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as
in long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the
in more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more central
in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the contending
in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton
in one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all
in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible
in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at first I saw
in other chaps," abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis
in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat never admits of
in person. But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest
in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the
in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you
in respect to the measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as
in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately sit at
in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less rotund and jolly
in stowing the line in its tub. Some harpooneers will consume almost an
in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
in the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in the boat
in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be hard to say
in the Pequod's cabin. After their departure, taking place in inverted
in the Pequod, ISOLATOES too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
in the Right Whale's mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all these
in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and
in the affairs of the deck,--Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to
in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver--an inflated bag
in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round the
in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave
in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening
in the concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final
in the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that
in the dark, and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant
in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints
in the end, shipmate?' and going to the mate, he looked at him
in the far ocean fisheries--a whaler at sea, and long absent from home
in the feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of
in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much the speed of the
in the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions
in the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale's
in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged. They
in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in its earlier
in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a fish
in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view
in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders
in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, the emigrants were
in the long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the
in the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on
in the mouth of a whale." --PILGRIM'S PROGRESS
in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been
in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyed
in the one technical phrase--the Season-on-the-Line. For there and then
in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of the
in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that
in the sea
in the sea; face to face they not only eye its greatest marvels, but
in the ship's full middle, all her keel and her three masts before me
in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters more directly
in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean
in the very beginning of his work (page 3), sets down the Right Whale at
in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before might
in the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or in
in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is no intermediate
in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn
in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the
in their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that both
in their places; the cranes were thrust out; the mainyard was backed
in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as the white
in these jaws of death! In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar
in this same last or shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with
in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!--what the devil is ginger
in those frigid Polar Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country
in those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the
in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and very
in truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it
in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the man assure
in vain to attempt a clear classification of the Leviathan, founded upon
in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor headed. They
in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the aspect
in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the other
inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his
incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths
incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some year or two
incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the
incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in the act of leaping, as if
incessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep
incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do
incidents in all the business of whaling. One day the planks stream with
inclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the lower
included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. He
included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come the grand
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
including the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea, did not much
incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable indeed is it regarded
incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering any strange
incomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by the
inconsiderable oil came up with the water; the casks below must have
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps
incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at each
incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's spout is so
incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale
inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it. His title
inculcating the religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from this
incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances
indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the
indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman activity to the
indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low down
indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo
indications, the puffs of vapour they spouted, seemed their forerunning
indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the
indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly
indirectly struck by the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies
indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the more
indispensable to the business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling
indispensable to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a
individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
individual's intention was to land him in the first convenient port, the
induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean through
inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing. For, thought Ahab, while
inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage. What
infallible arrow of the sires. To look at the tawny brawn of his lithe
infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse
inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same
inferior subalterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of the
infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general stolidity
infinitely outdone by the madness of men
infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But BEING
influenced by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immense
influences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtle
influences were struggling in her--one to mount direct to heaven, the
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material
initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially
inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my
innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, starting from
innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his
inquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested with
inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and
inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought it must
inscriptions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives of the seamen
insect. So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without
inserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as
inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the loosened sails
insisted that the yellow warehouse--our first point of departure--must
inspire the rest of the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the
instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation. Still, no
instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
instances where the contrary of this has proved true. In general, the
instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly
instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle
instant, the fish, taking one good dart forwards, went down like a
instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering
instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving
instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming
instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the
instantly, the entire ship careens over on her side; every bolt in
instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of
instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an unearthly, formless
insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain." --ULLOA'S
intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam before
intelligence from the Deity--mostly swim in VEINS, as they are called
intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow one of the
intelligently conversed with the world. Nor are there wanting other
intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which
intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a little
intense a calm, it seemed the Sphynx's in the desert. "Speak, thou vast
intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened line
intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance
intensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale
intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for
interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake
interest" in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost
interlacings of the limbs--lithe swayings--coyings--flutterings! lip
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope--like the Three
interval had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks
interval of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam's
intervals--stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went
into a purplish yellow one. However, I had never been in the South Seas
into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip
into my first mate's boat--Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way
into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the clear air of day
into sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the
into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their
into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending the Spermaceti Whale
into the air, Sirs
into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his balls
into the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates. Seeing himself
into the cabin
into the cabin to mark how the barometer stood, he saw him with
into the cabin, and did not come forward again until morning
into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for
into the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years
into the now sacred retreat of the cabin
into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line
into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
into the sea, he swam back to his comrades
into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen--who foreknew not the
into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main clinging
into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain strove to make
into the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb's boast, that he
into the sleeves of an old jacket
into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable." --MISSIONARY
into their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy
intolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepid
intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goes through
introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put on the
invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which
invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows
invert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom
inverted. My God! what is the matter with me? thought I. Lo! in my brief
invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire care-free
involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke
involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on
involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in
iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks
iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one
iron, men, the white whale's--no, no, no,--blistered fool! this hand did
irons entered the whale. Blinding vapours of foam and white-fire! The
irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached
irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the
is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether they
is a regular semiweekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench
is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly awakened fears, the
is about the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape
is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the
is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who
is at last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by
is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at the conclusion; not
is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place
is by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part
is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from
is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his
is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me some sort of
is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them
is for the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along
is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle. Because
is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in some quarters it
is in two of them I saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack
is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set sail in this
is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands are
is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of
is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
is not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest
is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus
is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height of this
is only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but
is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that
is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow
is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm
is relatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its
is shrieking, and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with
is smaller than a hare's? But if his eyes were broad as the lens of
is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with him, leaving smooth
is that of the fishers--Right-Whale Porpoise, from the circumstance that
is that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name
is the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an
is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great
is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
is the forward part of the ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it
is the lord and master of that school technically known as the
is their demigorgon. Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry is forward
is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him, that
is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend clergy--am a strict total
is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one, I mean. Canst
is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the pencil
is, that at times like these the drugg, comes into requisition. Our boat
is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage, whatever
is--by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallest
is; like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the
isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
island of Nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers. In the
isle were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he
isles of all Polynesia confess the same truth, and do commercial homage
it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they
it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line (mentioned
it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of
it at the weight of twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns
it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but
it can never assume the practical, available supremacy over other men
it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way
it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor about it, such
it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for
it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outside, or whether
it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it
it has the last and bitterest blow. Run tilting at it, and you but run
it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those Icy Seas
it in horror again. The latter was the eternal, living principle or
it in the whale, they say he is gallied. The compact martial columns
it into thy hands, Starbuck." Then arranging his person in the basket
it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself, it is all the
it is time to return to the Pequod
it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of the blood-vessels, so
it is to have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this
it may prove in the mere skeleton I give
it might be said, only rises from the circumstance, that the
it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least
it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon. With
it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's way greatly
it not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise
it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated
it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as the standard-bearer of this
it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almost
it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size, but
it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and finished the
it since I put it there." Running to a little closet under the landing
it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the
it taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension. Pressing
it to the little negro. But the little devil did not seem to fancy such
it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoons
it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that
it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of
it was, too, that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had
it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale
it were, among the marble senate of the dead. Captain Peleg's bruited
it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the surrounding
it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor
it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were
it would never do in plain sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would
it!--as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the
it's the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment
it, after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men
it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon the sea
it, he's always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots
it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky
it, that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind you
it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point
it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines and
it. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful
it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken words that
it. It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me this
it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the
it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back. The Fin-Back is not
it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon rising to the surface, the
it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some
it; sleeping all night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his
it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
its coming any closer to the ship
its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, to increase her distance
its fathom-deep enfoldings, and the bones become dust dry in the sun
its gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped from him; the
its name; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew
its way along the flesh--clear along the whole length of my arm--came
itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But
itself, perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces. This
itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almost
itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were getting the
itself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up
ivory heel--it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long
ivory leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like two sword-fish blades
jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor
jackets into the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the
jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost
jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him
jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for
jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by
jaw; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so
jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him. But
jet had issued, I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as
jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross
jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a warm
jetted into the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the case might be
jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the memory of their
jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy at
joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly thought not
joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, and more than
journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very much more than three
joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, the sin of this son of
joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the multitudinous
judge him openly. He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's assented
jump from a boat, Pip, except--but all the rest was indefinite, as the
jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the ship
just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random whales
just beginning to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I
just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his face
keel, as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose
keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and
keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far
keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless
keep out the tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his
keeping my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate the snugness
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
keeping without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose. Dash the nose
keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's hustings; and
kept passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between
kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head
keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra
kick from Ahab. 'Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row? It's not a real leg
kick. Besides,' thinks I, 'look at it once; why, the end of it--the foot
kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my foot for it
killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which
kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White
kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a crucible of
kings of Pegu placing the title "Lord of the White Elephants" above all
kings of old times, we find the head waters of our fraternity in nothing
knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed
knew must be about whalers. The title was, "Dan Coopman," wherefore I
knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked, Ahab thereby
knotted round the tail of one of these whales
know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated
know what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistence
knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and
knowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from
known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous to descending
known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensed pilots
known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto been designated
knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the likeness of three
knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how the lovely Andromeda
lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale's head. As you behold
lacquered; clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness
laid eye upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the
lamps--often but old bottles and vials, though--to the copper cooler at
lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and
lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade
lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron
lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went, while the
land lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which like
land soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils
land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with the
land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king
landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest
lands on the summit of the head. There--still high elevated above the
lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They generally
larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a
large or in little, written of the whale. Run over a few:--The Authors
large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a
largely contribute to their might; so that in the tail the confluent
largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it is
last come to be converted into the churches
last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti
last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met with no
last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular look
last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking
last three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward one
last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
last, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow
last--owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead-lined chocks of
last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no rowing
last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship
latch-key to get into the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can
late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be a species of the
latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White
latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men, restrain the gush
latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across the
latitudes. I've heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos
latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and come what
launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected lofty
launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
law, the whale is declared "a royal fish
law, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and
lay almost at the surface of the water, but was not perceived by any
lay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying
lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to the sea
layer upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the
layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the "heart
leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow
leaned over towards the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of
leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed in
leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
leaning over the same rail
leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the
leaped from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood
learned Judge in set terms decided, to wit,--That as for the boat, he
learned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange
leash. The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres. One whaleman has estimated
least known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes
least out of the water. The masts reeled, and the sails fell altogether
least, they said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body
leather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were
leaves the highest honours that this air can give, to those men who
leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied
leaving him, then flowed so wide away--on each bright side, the whale
leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter
leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too with
leeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up
left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his
leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned Turk, no
leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off
legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily
length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet for
length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship neared them
length upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
leopards--the unrecking and unworshipping things, that live; and seek
lesson that the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is a two-stranded
lesson to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle in the
lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, but
let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's
let me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a
level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, half on the
level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the
levelled flame of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned there
levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was but
levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me
leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body. There are
leviathan; and belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and
leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost
leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not
leviathans of the sea. And even when recognised at last, their immense
liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain, and
license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior fellows
lie considerably below the level of his back, they are then completely
lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its
lieutenants. Ha! what's this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come
life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin
life into the hands of him who steered the boat--oftentimes a fellow who
life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what
life, was smitten bodily into the air, and making a long arc in his
life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then
life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic
life; and this is the key to it all
life; we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last one
lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea
lift the body; so, then--Oh! God"--advancing towards the hammock with
light of that darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen
light of the evangelical land. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious
lighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at the feet. We kept the pipe passing
lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. "There she blows
lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the
lighting from the boat to the deck, "thus I trample on thee, thou paltry
lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron into him
lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't
lights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be
like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown
like Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not
like a serpent's tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm--"God, God
like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same
like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless
like an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In plain
like fire-flies in the gloom--"Hemp only can kill thee
like giants' palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at one
like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of
like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower. You
like the spouts of the whales; only they did not so completely come and
like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet. His spout was
like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descried
like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had the time, I
like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him
likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former
likewise start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of
line of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in
line, and lost. For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in
line, as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought
line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other whale's
line, though the position was a little ticklish. But though boats have
line--now parting--admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to
line; THESE shall conduct me, and show me my place on the sea. Aye
lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into the
lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round
lining of a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the Sperm Whale's
links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose remote
listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained
little as if still nervously agitated. "Whew!" he whistled at last--"the
little damaged in the head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of
little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned
little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer does
little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp--the rope
little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the andirons. The
little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the latitude. So
little pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would
little trap-hatch in the bottom. On the after side, or side next the
little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing
little, turned and said:--"Ye've shipped, have ye? Names down on the
live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be standing on this
live meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks
live without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely the
lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
lively, now!' And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines
lives at the time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment, be still
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of
living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to step; his hat slouched
living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him along 'into the
living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her tides and her
living sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
living. Oh! happy that the world is such an excellent listener
loaded musket's end against the door
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
locked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased
locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the wide extent of the
log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form's sake than
logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully collated
loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There
lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal. In about three minutes' time
lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the
long and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running
long been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne's time that the bone was
long breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off the
long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to
long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the
long, it takes away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of men
longer an integral. But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with
longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a spectralness
look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole head
look so bony. The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye
look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet
look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and providing
look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those lungs could
look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous
look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below
looked around her for a moment, and then decided that this was the very
looked to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only
looking down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the
looking dubiously at the sleeper. But it seemed that, when on the wharf
looking on from the forecastle. "That Parsee smells fire like a fusee
looking out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded my presence
looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the
looking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on the
looks like some crown-jewel stolen from the King of Hell. But let us to
looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marble
lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand
loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
lost overboard, Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia, November
loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his
lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the
lower for a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck the
lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale's. Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any
lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder was being
lowered, the mate's got the start; and none howled more fiercely with
lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I would wear out
luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side
lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast
lungs, like a human being's, the whale can only live by inhaling the
lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own
luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems almost to
machinery? Much might be ruminated here, concerning the essential
mad, boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping
mad,--'I want to use him.' 'Take him,' says the governor--and by the
made a straight wake for the whale's mouth--the bar--when the wrinkled
made to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last locked
made to it, especially by the mates. But once Tashtego's senior, an old
made. With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks
madly invoked to befriend by their counsels the distracted decks
maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from
magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores
magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every
magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagement to the excellent
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet
magnitude of the head
maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, the
main-chains, and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he was recognised by
main-mast and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thought
main-top-sail and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in the
main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment
majority first. But the captain, for some unknown constitutional reason
make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more
make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they
make much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the
make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional supplemental
make the boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing
making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the
making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the deep
malefactors with the chain and ball. But upon flinging the third, in the
man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play of these miscreants
man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's
man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very
man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and there's naught
man, travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the
man-handled and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap
man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the sun do that
manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope tied
mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more
manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever addressed
mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange
many of them--and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
marble trunk of the whale
marches in, and being assigned the post of honour, placed himself over
mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn
mariners readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo
mark its place on the sea, and also as token of prior possession, should
mark the unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life. Foremost
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other
marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages; so that for
masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit. Three of them ran
masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the completed ship
masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of
mass for the dead begins with "Requiem eternam" (eternal rest), whence
mass of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater to
mast employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though
mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene
mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters for the
mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general belief among
mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking they would catch the
mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced
mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats
mast. There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the vanity of glory
master; who, sitting in the lee quarter-boat, has just been taking an
mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand in a
mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas
masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some
mat where the feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once
mate's watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. I suppose
mate,--who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck--and bade him pause
maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final
maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable
mates' boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows
mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand
mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins at the beginning, and
mathematical meditation. It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod
mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly
matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled the mysterious
matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this
matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the old
matter with you? What's the matter with you, shipmate
matter, the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws
matters touching the chase of whales
mattress, and it's a plaguy rough board here"--feeling of the knots and
maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart from
may be a castor of state. How they use the salt, precisely--who knows
may beget. In shape, the Sleet's crow's-nest is something like a large
may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking
may conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire
may sink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall
me on the errand
me so, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull
me the privilege of making my own summer with my own coals
me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the
me to that island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch
me touch the axis." So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
me touchy (ADVANCING.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable dark
me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded his
me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes ago!"--then
me, in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where
me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more
me, offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a
me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we
me, so the sunset soothed. No more. This lovely light, it lights not me
me. Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze
me; if not, Ahab is enough to die--Down, men! the first thing that but
meadow-like appearance, caused by the vast drifts of brit continually
mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of the common porpoise
meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of
measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point
meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and being well
medallions, cups, and coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of
meditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a
mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana
meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a
melancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the
melancholy pause. "Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so--the coffin
melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned the round horizon
melted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me
member--that makes the living insult, my little man. And thinks I to
men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble
men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So
men, now, and stand by to square in the yards
men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane
men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor. But perhaps the
men. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what's this long
men. They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the
mend thou the line. See to it
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For while
mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres
mentioned: i.e. that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea
mentioning. And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper
merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in the construction
merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling house of
merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive missionaries to their
merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence, in
merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast
mere island King, especially in the King's own house--the Captain coolly
mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled
merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;--merry's the word
met like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled
methodic intervals, the whale's glittering spout was regularly announced
methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one of the
mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter
middle of solitary seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence
middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and named after it
middle, and lower. The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are
midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
midst of the seas,' where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand
might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line
might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuated the
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground
might burst. From the boat's fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and
might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the popular
might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But
might have been. The three men were then cut down, all hands were turned
might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask
might live a century, and never once raise its head above the surface
might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle was
might well appal me. Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant with thee
mightest thou fear the Lord God THEN! Straightway, he now goes on to
mighty Pilot! thou tellest me truly where I AM--but canst thou cast the
mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's gurgling track, pushed her on
mighty god-like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely amplified
mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in
mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong
mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the hob
mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas after
mild stage when, after its first intensity has warmed the air, it then
mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not
mildness; and veer not from their mark, however the baser currents of
milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most
milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs. Yet, in
mind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted
mind how hard the metal, blacksmith
mind; it's all in fun: so the old song says;"--(SINGS
mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that henceforth we were
mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight
minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed
miracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews
miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the air
miser'll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes 'mong the worlds
miserably. By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but
misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
mistake. Look at that popular work "Goldsmith's Animated Nature." In the
modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay
modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the
moment hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one
moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never
moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than the waves; fixed
monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought from the sound on
monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the
monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal, you bid
monster might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest
monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and
monster's back for the special purpose referred to. But in very many
moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver
moored to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a
more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!" jingling the leathern bag
more intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention
more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as in the
more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but
more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be so
more than four. The smallest, where the spine tapers away into the
more than one-third of the bulk of an average-sized male. They are
more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled
more the merrier. Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone--devils
more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the
more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
moreover, as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacy
morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl's
morning shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the
morning three others of the mutineers bolted up into the air from the
morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the wind
morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be
morning, the shock was after all caused by an unseen whale vertically
morning. 'Damn ye,' cried the Captain, pacing to and fro before them
morning. About this time--yes, it is his noon nap now--the boy
morning. In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has a
mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in
mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter
mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating--an ugly sound enough--so
mortar were being hurled into the sea
mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The
most dangerous to attack of all the known species of the whale tribe
most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I then glanced
most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold
most important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of
most meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the
most scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses
most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the whales
most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into the water
most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the idol
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you
most venerable of the leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted
mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to
mother!--it will be the ruin of my house. Has the poor lad a sister
mothers in them! Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea. The white whale
motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his meat as
motions of the head
motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness, and
mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When the revelry
mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod's fish-spears
mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
mounted desperado Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay
mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch, so soon as I
mouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up into
mouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the
mouthful of Grenadier's steak. And thus with oars and yells the keels
moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call
movement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand
movement was to crush himself--boots in hand, and hat on--under the bed
mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil we how
much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles and foam
much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus
much lee-way adown the dim ages
much like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that
much puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg
much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether
much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale's body
mumbling voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softly crawling
mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the
mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids
murder him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
murdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath
murderers from Sodom." Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea
murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy! hard fares the
muscular fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins
musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little
must be eyeing him. These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is
must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that
must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the first degree. Had
must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern's
must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or harpooneer is of
must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
mutely watches the monster die
muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. "It's
muttered on: "The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the same
muttered--"whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on
muttered--then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would
mutters something about the doors of convicts' cells being never allowed
mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in
my back to her prow and the compass. In an instant I faced back, just
my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me--THAT is the
my foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them
my lad,--the captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the yarn
my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails
my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick the sky! I leap with thee; I burn with
my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for the
myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against
myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I think.--I come
myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck
myself, for the present irrespective of Queequeg
myself--the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason
myself. Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity. I can stand
mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable. This allusion to the Indian
mystically carved in front, so the whale's vast plaited forehead forms
nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wanted to use the
nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses
naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the
name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm
name; who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and
nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the
namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure, limpid
names--a singularly common fashion on the island--and in childhood
narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher
naturalists--Olassen and Povelson--declaring the Sperm Whale not only to
naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker
naturally unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the
nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine
near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit--the
near the door, and turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near
nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb counted upon the honour
nearest seaman. "The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short
nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's last start had not been
nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but the dense
nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy
nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me
necessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the
necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale
necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to the
necks; but it is only when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death
needs give in to this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad
neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as
neighbors--the Byward Tower, or even the Bloody? And those sublimer
never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship's mast-heads
never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well nigh the
never troubled with the thought of what you shall have for dinner--for
never weary? Where is the foundling's father hidden? Our souls are like
never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in the
nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it; that
new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that
new-fallen snow? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant of the
nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a
night he hear the roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feels just
night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay
night! (WAVING HIS HAND, HE MOVES FROM THE WINDOW
night, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before pent
night, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose
night. But no matter--'tis but resting for the rush
nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a
no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man's and every being's
no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances. All this struck
no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than
no external nose; and that what nose he has--his spout hole--is on the
no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely defined than in
no longer. The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging
no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the
no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four
no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the windlass
no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down into its
no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands now
no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale
no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm
no sustenance but what's in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in the
noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred White Dog was
noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it? In every fight
noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of
noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale's eyes
noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown's ordinary revenue
none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Small
nooks and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of
noon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right
noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter came
noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French whaler anchored
noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was
nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop
nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
north with the darkness towards the south--wherever in your wisdom you
northward of the Line. One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
northward of us." --CAPTAIN COWLEY'S VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, A.D. 1729
nose to the whale would have been impertinent. As on your physiognomical
noses on the Pequod's deck proved more vigilant discoverers than the
nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles
nostrils. Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost short
not a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the
not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were the case
not at all his proper business, but the pilot's; and as he was not
not bear that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there
not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of
not do away with ledgers. I would be free as air; and I'm down in the
not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much more
not go mad? How can'st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavens yet
not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what response would
not locked together. They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on
not one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the
not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation
not only that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises
not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.--Where's the
not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle
not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet
not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the sole
not the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers
not the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces
not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to
not the slightest other part of the creature be visible, this isolated
not to be the man that is advertised, they let him pass, and he descends
not willingly have dared. All that is made such a flourish of in the old
not; but so it happened. Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate
nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in
nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little
nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship indolently rolls; the
nothingness to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on the world
noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a
now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I asked
now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the stranger. Drawing
now come to her, for the voyage is up
now for the seizings
now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused on
now listen. What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which
now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough and rare? What a
now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled
now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. With
now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling
now!--the deck is thine, sir
now's the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made
now, and lie and listen to me." I then went on, beginning with the rise
now," he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, "this smoking no
now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious
nowadays christened the "Shark," the "Gull," the "Eagle." Nor have there
nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those that
numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath
numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all hunting, since he
numerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seems no
nursing whale are cut by the hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk
o'clock in the morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty leagues
oar, the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong, nervous
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same
oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timid
oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing plungingly
obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
object in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his
objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is there aught
obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the darkness
obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudinously
observation of the sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the
observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried
observers, that of late years, must have possessed the most abundant
obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal beadle on his throne
occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two
ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and
ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his
of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances--this kind of
of Algiers, I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with
of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of the story was
of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each other at the watches
of Constantinople, in the days when Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius
of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the
of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of
of Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering
of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the Thames; "when Sir
of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale's
of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and
of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of all this, I will not admit that of
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard
of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude the fattest
of St. George. And therefore, let not the knights of that honourable
of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright? I tell you, the
of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless
of a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the
of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse. And what with the standing
of a house than the unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside of its
of a nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of
of a seventy-four can stand still? For one, I gave myself up to the
of a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the
of a whale, which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to
of accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of
of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down
of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
of all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter
of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military elephants of
of all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and
of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
of any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of a
of attending to the castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime
of audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and
of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such a letter, Death
of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths
of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which the Right Whale
of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams will
of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of
of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
of course in any other marine than the whale-fleet
of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more perilous
of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of
of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the
of empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its
of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth went
of exercise; always out of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the
of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who
of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at creation's final
of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
of geographical empire encircles an imperial brain; then, the plebeian
of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the
of him as the seat of his intelligence
of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the
of his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, AUGUST
of his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a
of his divinity. Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his
of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had last
of his head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he
of his head, nearly one third of his entire length from the front
of his jets and the ordinary periods of respiration
of his sail; "there is time to kill a fish yet before the squall comes
of his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading
of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him still more from the
of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in; hence the
of honest wonders--the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient Dampier's
of horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savage was the only
of it, that's about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of
of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming
of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by its
of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin, from which
of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though
of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm Whales
of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they
of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath
of my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of the English naturalists; the
of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the full-freighted
of oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand
of one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in strange
of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied
of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, with the same sort
of pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, this dignity is
of pickles for the steward's pantry; another time with a bunch of quills
of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and where
of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the
of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have sighted
of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and
of real historical interest. How long, prior to the year of our
of receipt of the work
of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same time economically
of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual. What does he
of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air
of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain's
of speed in the chase; but long experience in various whalemen of more
of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out of a
of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and was
of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing
of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt
of the American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say, because in all
of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan
of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner
of the Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, with closed
of the Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and
of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from
of the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards the receding
of the Pequod, he had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like
of the Prince of the Powers of the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second
of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce long
of the boat, remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken
of the capture. It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length become
of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine
of the chase. So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their
of the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost
of the crew, is uncertain--he called for linen thread; and moving to the
of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged, even to
of the deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose the
of the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not
of the door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those few
of the doors to catch them by the feet. The smoke rolled away in sullen
of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king's trowsers
of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a broad shad-bellied waistcoat
of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose mere
of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro
of the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings
of the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the
of the fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about
of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it
of the great New England moose, had scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal
of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers
of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I was all
of the larger vertebrae, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer
of the living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to us all, because it
of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in
of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's
of the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readily
of the mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's
of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the imminent
of the middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. From
of the more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say to
of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted with the sea, as
of the natural philosophers, that all other earthly hues--every stately
of the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm
of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing
of the oarsmen. Next instant, the luckless mate, so full of furious
of the ocean
of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of
of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West, when
of the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two
of the owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat's
of the port--he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot in
of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only are whalemen
of the same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness was a
of the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was mentioned
of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly called
of the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in
of the sea combined
of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all
of the sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that
of the sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor
of the sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh
of the seamen
of the seas of life,--all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than
of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, the hoisted sperm
of the seats of the boat, and in an instant tore it out and carried it
of the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear
of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the background, both
of the smallest strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures. Yet what
of the soldier's profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran
of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which in repeated instances have
of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so
of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this
of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from
of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured. This done, the
of the stuff of the whale's skin
of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most
of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine
of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to
of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's
of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters, who, in quest
of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces
of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted
of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also his pipe
of the water; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope
of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and padded
of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily vintages
of the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by
of the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild
of the whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and the
of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the
of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute
of the works, on the further side of the wide wooden hearth, was the
of the world as generously supplying the muscles. No small number of
of the world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all
of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was
of their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of
of their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for the
of their tails against the hull, within a few inches of the sleepers
of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter's office, was
of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that
of them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and
of these things. On its round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL
of things, such as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as
of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship
of this hue, which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness
of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the sea is his; he
of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained up and enchanted in him
of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not
of those less lowering, but still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the
of those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists
of two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English
of understanding shall remain" (I.E., even while living) "in the
of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God's throne
of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour; though in many climes
of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster, and delivered
of whales, their probably attaining the age of a century and more
of which districts are three lines; one to show the number
of wind--which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a
of wiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman--the old
of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth. That's
of ye, and let's have a taste. By the Lord, it's worth bottling! I tell
of ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had
of you like billiard-balls. The bread--but that couldn't be helped
of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general
of, "There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Down with
of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of
off at the bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it
off at the stump--do you see; and then, I rather guess when he finds
off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
off from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from the now
off shore; in so doing, fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would
off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a
off the water, d'ye see. Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end
off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when
off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
off, the boats flew to the rescue
off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the sailors
offered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact
offers to ship with the Phaedon instead of Bowditch in his head. Beware
officer called the Specksynder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter
officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each other
officers, if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag
often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of
often stand for each other. "Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a
oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the
oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine, that
oh he's a hard driver. Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the
oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; "Mr. Stubb, I
oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the
old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it a separate
old Sag Harbor; and seeing what the sailors did there; and then going on
old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in
old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a Lying-in-Hospital
old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shivering frost
old doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were sawed off on the other
old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him easier to
old primers. What shall be said of these? As for the book-binder's whale
old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his great padded
old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat
old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was before the
omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the
omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of
omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along
on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as
on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the beholder
on from before, the solitary jet would at times be descried
on his boot, and striding up to the bit of mirror against the wall
on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and
on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance
on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the
on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what is the
on that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that
on the Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found
on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:--'It's not our
on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a
on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
on the lower part of the bunch before described. But as the stumps of
on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship's
on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his
on the point of giving way; an event still more likely from the violent
on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of the
on the sea,--for by live-oaks! my spine's a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait
on the shoulder,--"Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear that way
on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracing lines and
on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, they heard the waters
on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac waves
on to the full glass--the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down for
on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while
on, from the bright red windows of the "Sword-Fish Inn," there came such
on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrills me through
once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that to
once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, THAT had
one after the other hurled entire boats with all their oars and crews
one aggregate, than the high and mighty business of whaling. One way
one and the same time
one arm still striking out, and with the other dragging a lifeless form
one case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as
one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer
one entitled "The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose," placed it in
one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the
one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate
one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. For as the swift
one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with
one of their few aspects of oriental repose. The other engraving is
one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big chains
one on board till the moment when the ship, which was in full sail
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The three mast-heads
one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific
one tithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the
one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal
one way or other served in much the same way--either in a physical
one, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the
one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites of the east reverenced
one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the American line-tub
one: a Russian craft built on the Siberian coast, and purchased by my
ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever
only began the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters
only broken by the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the
only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued from the cabin
only fresh fare they had. But the forecastle was not very light, and it
only glows to be looked at; the evening shades and phantoms gathering
only in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientific
only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself, then, as it
only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the
only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a
only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high
only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or
only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest
oozed along into the muscles of his fingers. He was like one of
open air. I say, that the motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water
open any of my doors?"--and with that she seized my arm. "What's the
open the door
open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea before
open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the uses of the
opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones
opportunities to fix the problem
opposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the whale
opposite organs on an equality, much less the creatures to which they
opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were ready for
or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great
or I'll clear the world of thee
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
or Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that
or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy
or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and
or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
or his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at him cannot
or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and other
or lovely emblazoning--the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea
or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously
or metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is
or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese. As the least
or no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hope of
or otherwise, I cannot say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm
or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or seventy
or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my
or pulpits, called CROW'S-NESTS, in which the look-outs of a Greenland
or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those inferior
or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference
or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they
or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or not
or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling
or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let
order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I have the
order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was concerned
order to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was
original edition of the "Advancement of Learning" you will find some
original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance
ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a look upwards
orphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg
oscillates in Jonah's room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf
ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run to
other Leviathan of the deep, according to the observed humor of his
other aft--the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails
other aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our
other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn thee. It's a
other for life, and now wears out bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there
other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and
other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
other seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever; appeared to have
other stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has
other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for
other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it
other, carrying on eternal war since the world began
other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered
others were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before
otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of the fire, till their
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whale
our prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills. Thus glistening
out a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Into this
out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing
out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic old woman, he
out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We
out his papers for the Customs--'Who's there?' Oh! how that harmless
out his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the
out of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge into
out of sight over the wide waters. They resolved to follow in the same
out of the water--the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves
out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then ranging up for
out of thee! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not? There burn the
out precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in
out the first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale
out to the uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described him
out; and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered
out?--Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as
outer circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in
outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen; from
outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and
outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole
outs! Man the braces
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff
over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual
over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of his vessel
over his head. For what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared
over me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost
over that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant's and you come
over the Grand Turk's head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
over the agitated pool that he left
over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable, silent form
over the cutting-tackle
over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying
over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal
over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed
over the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon
over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two hands
over the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the
over the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen
over the sleeper, from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning him
over the sperm whale's head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
over the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces
over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stern of the boat it is spirally
over with curious carving; and the bottom of which was formed of a
over with the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but
over, about three o'clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up with
over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground..... The
overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and
overboard and scatter 'em. They're playing the devil with his estate, I
overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust
overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning him
overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were
overwhelmed all the millions in China. He lives on the sea, as prairie
owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
own "Perseus Descending," make out one whit better. The huge corpulence
own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks
own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
own in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles
own names (we fathers being the original inventors and patentees), so
own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not more than one
own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of
own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail
pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship's stokers. With huge pronged
pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about in the
pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he
paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their
painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe, and
palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler
palms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward
panellings of temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields
part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the
part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely independent of the
part of the fish, and also from the thicker portions of his flukes. It
part of the whale (many of which impressions I cannot now recall
part where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carried
part, is as important a one as will be found in this volume; but the
parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as
particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by the event
particular. It also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are
particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the
partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom
pass out of the Mediterranean into the Propontis
passage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of
passing through the floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly
past, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra
patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of
pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying
peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking business in which he
peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment
pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab's
peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, the Greenland whalers
peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the
peculiar tones when in distress, but also from the human look of their
peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified
peculiarity. He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a
peeling and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other is slowly
pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I that I should
penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what shoals
penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by
people on deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one's
people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil
peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they
perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
perceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are
perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing just
perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, now aloft and motionless
perched upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But the
perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's
perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of boiling out; and in the
perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptoms of some latent
perhaps. Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons
perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vivid
perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a
period ago--not a good lifetime--the census of the buffalo in Illinois
periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow off the
periodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst
perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work
permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do what the
perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight, lofty trunk of
perpendicularly into the air. It was the while." --MIRIAM COFFIN OR THE
perpetually reigns on the threshold of the eternal August of the Tropic
perplexity of inert irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive
perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final
persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) would
person as he shifted the rule
person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because he was the only
person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character. On his
pervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out
pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the
phantoms soon found their place among the crew, though still as it were
phase of the Quaker, modified by individual circumstances
phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind
philosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
pick? Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag? What skiff in tow
picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery hanging
piece of hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped it into water
pieces of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true
pilot stands by his compass, and takes the precise bearing of the
pilot's coast is to him. So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the
pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious
pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at the
pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made the
pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled
pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of
pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of
pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet
piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water
place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without
place this darker thread with the story as publicly narrated on the
place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil
place--where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the
placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always to pick up the
placed next the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking
placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place
placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the
placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will
placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the
placidity, the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in
plain as the ship's three masts to his eye; the White Whale churning
plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the
plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
plain. And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely
plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy
plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic depression in the
plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, line
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed
plank of her has been seen since. After the severest exposure, part of
plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the most
planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still
planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart into the
plaudits? And if the idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit
pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on the
pleased to walk the planks, then, no one could say nay; but there might
plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet
plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head
point anywhere above a ship's deck. The end of the hawser-like rope
point of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they
point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles of
point out one single peaceful influence, which within the last sixty
pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with
pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a
pointing towards the open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but
points that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent Antarctic
poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously
poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the
poke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the
polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that
polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months' night
pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the bucket into the Tun
poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads of the
poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or
polish. Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had
poniards in the whale. The vast white headless phantom floats further
poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans
poor fellow's name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will read
poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boy of this weary
poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand, and broken the
popularly classed among whales. But possessing all the grand distinctive
porpoise grant from the crown
portion of the National interest. There is a population of eight or nine
portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the antediluvian
positive alarm, as yet. The recall signals were placed in the rigging
possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould of every
possession is the whole of the law. What are the sinews and souls of
possibly carrying on the war within the first circle, where abundance of
possibly have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, like the
possibly object to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of the
post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a Cholo, the
post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh the
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously
posture, runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to the
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath
potency. But when, as in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown
poured from the smitten rock
poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very
powder in the pan;--that's not good. Best spill it?--wait. I'll cure
powder, and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the
power, you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the most
practicable. But this critical act is not always unattended with the
practical procedures;--he called the carpenter
practised Right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daring
practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful
prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the waves should
praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and at last amid
pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, giving the white
pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm Whale anywhere more
preacher's text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and
preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them
precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle
precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its
precise nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering
precisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet
precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by spiralizing it. For the
precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed
precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things
preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the earlier
premeditated reference to this world or the next. You might almost
preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to, so
prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn
present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds
present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that
present case with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man
present may be numbered:--I., the GRAMPUS; II., the BLACK FISH; III
present to her highness another horn, pertaining to a land beast of the
presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes
presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to
presumed place of the absent ones when last seen; though she then
pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk. 'Thunder away at it
pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate
pretty nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the same with the
pretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in the
pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all the wedding
prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically
previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery; like the
previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this account
previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm I had found
previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to the baling of
prices there. Also, that in Henry VIIIth's time, a certain cook of the
prick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his
primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious
principal owners of the Pequod,--this old Peleg, during the term of his
print of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah
printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the
prior to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, those
priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a nation of
private cypher, have been taken from the body. In the instance where
private table here, the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to
probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next
probably but felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more
probably capsizing her. How glad and how grateful the relief from this
proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at
proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stood invitingly
proceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition, in which their
proceeds to wash his hands in the punchbowl;--taking it I suppose for a
process. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both
processions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into
proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,--the
prodigious blunder is made of representing the whale with perpendicular
prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side. But we must let it
produce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of
productive subjects, grow the chapters
profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in
profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the
professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus and
professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was
profit to be counted down in dollars from the mint. He was intent on an
profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to
profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested the
profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
progression every hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The wooden
project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg's archives. The
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents
promontory of Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last
promptitude of his character, proceeded into the forecastle and took
pronounced it, in substance, one of the most extraordinary creatures
pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the Shaker God
proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
prop up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with
properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable. How the soot flies
property of the king." --BLACKSTONE
prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself
prophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or
prophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries
prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the fish; and from the
propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not
prose, here are four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean
protect him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
protection. Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego
proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry
prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be indeed
provide all the fittings for it, independent of those pertaining to
provident Fejee, I say, in the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions
prow for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon high
prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the
prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in
pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with his
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over an
pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to give notice of
pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while standing in the bows
purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast
purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar stair-like
pursued that Leviathan, but only in the North and South Atlantic: not
pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump for
pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
pursuit from man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable
pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when the swift
pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered old
pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely prolonged, if not a
pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly
put the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a
put, and which are duly answered at the time
putting it in a comprehensible form. It was the whiteness of the whale
pyramid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that
pyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale
qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced
queens. To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble in
queer crotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in THAT we all join
question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the
question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again
question must have been no other than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the
question. "The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it
quick, fanning motion, temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies
quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled
quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I'm the
quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of
quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; the
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of
quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the
quit the ship for good with the pilot
quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
quite alone; he having left the Chapel before the benediction some time
quite at home there in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his
quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso of
railing of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and
ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun
ramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely
rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the lee
rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the old
rather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the
rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast. It seemed only
rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clanking links, the vast
ravenous finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them
re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;" in
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
readily discernible. But the next time you have a chance, watch him; and
readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale
really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer did
rear paused on their way. The whales had irregularly settled bodily
reasonably dense, what can that be but the skin? True, from the unmarred
recalled--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
receive it"; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck's hands, he
receive the full complement of their crew. Upon the passage homewards
receive the latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard
recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle
recognised symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly
recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the
recondite Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscient look-outs
recover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he
recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
recovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, when
redness makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in the natural sun
reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the
reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and
reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook
reeling, but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of the
reeving it downwards through a block towards the tub, so as in the act
reference to his incarcerated body and the whale's gastric juices. But
reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight itself, it
reference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin
referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the
refuge for his restless glance. But that contradiction in the lamp more
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale
regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its
regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing
regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks that had been
regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring, and little finger. But
regular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the floor
regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other every two
rehearsing to you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket
rehearsing--singing, if I may--the romantic proceeding of decanting off
reigned supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted
reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one
relaxed in his wrath. "Pull up!--close to!" and the boat ranged along
reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside
reliable men. The original matter touching the sperm whale to be found
relics of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the
religions of the present time, during which time I labored to show
relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
remained dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that
remained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as
remains clinging to the side, that lye quickly exterminates it. Hands
remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by
remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in
remarked them in the large, full-grown bulls of the species
remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean
remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes
reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they
remnant of a village of red men, which has long supplied the neighboring
remonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs
remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But the whale rushed round
removed by the ship's pumps. Hereby the casks are sought to be kept
removed. You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed
repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he sped
repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew me. I'll
repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita
represented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted
reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular
reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon
rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even
resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and from
reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the first place, in
reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous
reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raised the
residing in the open air. Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabin
resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely
resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems they
respect does the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnaeus has given
respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier
respectively called the first and second irons
resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse than useless
responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up
rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries--he seems some Turkish
rest, and the ocean's invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and higher
rest, the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with
resting on his forehead. The air is close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in
restore them to their full tidiness. The soot is brushed from the lower
restored to some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then the three
resumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched
retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so
returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck
revealed. His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were
revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell
revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the
revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond entailed
riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats, and ships, and men
ridge-pole, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of
rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting captain, the
rigged the afternoon previous. "Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine--keep
rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal
rigging--'for you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;' and
rigging. All the numerous implements which have been in use are likewise
right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the blubber-room. Into
right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the
right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils
right, is the Yarman
ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou
ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore, all this
rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and behind, the blue waters
rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that
rise--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went out
rising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through
rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
rivals. The only thing they feared, was, that from being already so
riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other
road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feet high, and runs to a
robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew back upon
rocked on this pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons
rocks reminds me of another thing. Besides all the other phenomena which
roll of flannel for the small of some one's rheumatic back. Never did
roll round the place, and this thus far successful fugitive finds no
rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon the
rolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy
rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it
rolling over and over in the water, and as the blubber in one strip
rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
room and some convenient retreats were afforded them. But the sight
room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some
roomy part of the deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength
roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in due time
ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into the uproar, and
ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable to
rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker's boat, and much
rose-water snow. The starred and stately nights seemed haughty dames in
roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks
round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can't ye see the world where
round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and
round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previous to
round and round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing
round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod
round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, the companions of
round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor did the
round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders
round it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch in the
round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar
round the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain
round the dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness. The few
round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it
round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a
round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, could see
round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, all
round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Nor
round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder
round-house (CABINET he called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could
rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along the planks, and, after
rousing himself to see how the night wore on
rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the undiscoverable
royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old State-secret come
rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets. Fill to
ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor Woebegone
run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk
running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt
running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still
running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by leaping
rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every
rushing--and looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; and
saddest city thou can'st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and
saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
said I softly through the key-hole:--all silent. "I say, Queequeg! why
said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
sail ye, sir?' Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah
sail. The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them
sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer
sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity. Captain D'Wolf
sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland Islands, to
sailmakers who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then
sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary quantity
sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed
sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
sailors' heads, and now over the water--Daggoo, through a thick mist of
sails amid the cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards
sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to the other, why in that
salted fare--fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soil!--when the
salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the
same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
same fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic
same in the song
same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth, of
same quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly
same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the solitaries
same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes the
satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced by the subtle moisture
savage, owning no allegiance but to the King of the Cannibals; and ready
savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhat larger
save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder
saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three
saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them, afterwards
saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart
saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em
say it was on the starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little
say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt
say, will turn out to be identically the same with those that were found
say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the sign and bows
say. It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish and
saying in the Fishery,--the more whales the less fish. Of all the
says I, "but that's a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter
scared from it into the sea
scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak
scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick
schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from the name bestowed
scorched without, with the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck. At intervals, he ran
scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there. Poor
screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave
screwed chair was mine. Here, then, I'll seat me, against the transom
scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed the buckets
sea but snow-caps. Let me see. Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay
sea parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian
sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery surpasses
sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struck out through the spray
sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin. So have I
sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the other hand
sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks
sea-lion on the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still
sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model of such a strange
sea-usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom
sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us! But WHAT is this
sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with
sea. So Ahab's proceedings in this matter were not unusual; the only
seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower
seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently concluded
seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line
second iron, to toss it overboard--down comes the tail like a Lima
second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next
secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never reached the ears
secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
secured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all
see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two
see the world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well then, just
see thee again.--Aye, and thou goest before; and this, THIS then is the
see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really lie
see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it heads
see, in the eye of the rigging
see." And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg's
see; and a leg that never can run. Where did'st thou see the White
seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill more whales than
seek out the thing that might destroy them
seeks the food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth an
seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of
seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides and currents; and thereby
seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both
seemed his verdant jet. When the vast body had at last been stripped of
seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous
seemed playing up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this
seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of Eternity. An awe that
seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck crew
seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits
seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear
seemed to speak--one man to the other--unless at long intervals some
seemed to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the two
seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean shade
seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the
seems loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in
seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at all
seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles in the
seen and talked with Steelkilt since the death of Radney
seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack
seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the
seen that sight, then suspend your decision about the propriety of
seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee! Speak, but speak!--Aye, aye
seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs of the
seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, this natural line, with
self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works
sell it here, the market's overstocked
semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel
sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they
sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set
sent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad
sent it into the whale
sent it thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab's feet. Then
sent round with the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as
sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
sentences; and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords
sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the
separate colours, black above and white below. The white comprises part
separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon the same piece
serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received in the
serious things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things the
seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the architect
serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea." --ISAIAH
service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight. Too
set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him supplied
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
set, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below
set--all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to
settle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the
settled by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an eagle
seventy feet in length in the skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen
several of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded
several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks. Captain Davis, who
several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan. All these
several times saved from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the
several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once a
shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rocking
shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea. The
shadows I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket
shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were
shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious, precious, gold! the green
shall hold him in the smallest of his bowels' wards
shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that crooked
shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the blacksmith
shape of his fully invested body. So Owen rechristened the monster
shares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd
sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all
sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time striving
shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale's back
shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it said that
shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in
she hailed from London, and was named after the late Samuel Enderby
she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low
sheath to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a
shed off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who
sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship
sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic
ship as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo
ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on profitable cruises, the
ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a little
ship reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure the
ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own
ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
ship swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide, was now obliquely
ship that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape
ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being
ship's common log. Ah, the world! Oh, the world
ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight
ship's elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was
ship's lengths of the hunters
ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the
ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the time the poor
ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and
ship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the
ship, the whole of this strange affair I now proceed to put on lasting
ship--forgetful of the compact among the crew--in the excitement of the
ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many
ship-master, then, by inference, you will derive the cause of that
ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious
ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever
ship? Great God, where is the ship?" Soon they through dim, bewildering
shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean, the
shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm sorry I stopped
shipping hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod
shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So disordered
ships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. But
ships now sailing the seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose you would
ships; that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and the
shivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet
shivered. Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the
shooting stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays and
shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and
shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if the captain have
shore the round globe over
shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of
shore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of
short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by the
short of the great gods themselves. That wondrous oriental story is now
short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have
shortly bound home, he loudly hailed--"Ahoy there! This is the Pequod
shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights
shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the
should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father's
shouted out--"To the braces! Up helm!--square in
shouting part of the business. "Out of the way, Commodore!" cried one
showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern
shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago
shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out beyond the
shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came breeching
shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny
shuts his watergate upon the stream
shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction? If he
side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into the Sea
side out. By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though--How? how
side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip
side, completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck. The poor
side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the
side, which depending from the upper part of the head or crown
side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the
side-fins. This done, a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole
side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the Pequod's
side. Yet I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that
sides, and of which the wight Death is the only glazier." True enough
sides, and screwing it down to the timbers. On the flanks it is cased
sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. One of these little
sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest
sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn
siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel
sight is seen. Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, upon the fair
sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck
sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of Vendome
sight; all tackles are coiled in unseen nooks; and when by the combined
sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere
sign of "The Trap." However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice
sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest. On the contrary, it seemed
sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the 275th lay
sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly representing
sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what's the
significant darkness than of explanatory light. But, in the end, it all
significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an
significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this
signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods
silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the
silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old man
similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name. The gaff is
similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is often
similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the elephant
simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his
simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems
simultaneously with the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may
simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing
since then has something of the same sort of license prevailed, not
singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man's
single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; concluding
sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale HAS done it
sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
sink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!' and he
sinks in it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinking in this
sir, in my life--I resolved to capture him, spite of the boiling rage
sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a
sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room
sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves
six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling
six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me only say
sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase against the
skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines
skull an altar, and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real
skull proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are absolutely
skulls?"--the same way that whalers hail--"How many barrels?" And that
sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world, so long
skysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether
slackened away, and down goes the first strip through the main hatchway
slackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly
slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who
slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed alongside
slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen
sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks
sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship's stern, with
sleepers below in their bunks were often startled by the sharp slapping
sleeping by the savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. A
sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best. But these knocking
sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called
slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There's plenty of room
slewing about three or four large casks in a line with the windlass
slid through the air to the deck
slight contact with the outer, vapoury shreds of the jet, which will
slight scratch. Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk
slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding
slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas--entire
slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world
slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him out of
slippery world that can hold, man. What's Prometheus about there?--the
slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
slipping further into the whale's mouth, and tilting over sideways as it
slips out the long wooden stock, unsheathes the head, whets it a little
slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the
slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon
slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as if
slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse in the
slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface
slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead
slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks, and carry
small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the
small experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch's
small measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edge
small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad
small of my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; the
small--at one and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side
smelling. But owing to the mystery of the spout--whether it be water or
smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of
smelt in the sea
smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final puff
smoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke
smoking in the parlor;"--might as well kill both birds at once. Kill
smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the Golden Inn. Of those
smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale's spout, curled
smothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained
smugglers! the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he will not
snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the superstitions of some of
snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank
snap-spring over the ship's stern. Were ever such things done before
snow prints of the deer. But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and
snowhowdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in the
snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and
snugness of his box. When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of
so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what
so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land, furls his sails
so at those last words of Ahab's many of the mariners did run from him
so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your precise
so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes on the intense countenance
so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character
so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of them competent
so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the waves the
so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans
so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and
so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of the
so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of the
so that while the short lower part is still fast, the long upper strip
so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to fish up this old
so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be
so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the
so, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly's the word for aye! Adieu
so, at a broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant
so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species of the
so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world
so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in
so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much noise
sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone
sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter
soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim
soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea. Besides
solely determined by Ahab's level log and line; the Pequod held on
solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak
solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is
solicitudes. The whales might have made one of their regular soundings
solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the
solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it
solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the
solitary thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the
some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the nearest
some blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside
some days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill
some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate. The
some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon
some epicures; and every one knows that some young bucks among the
some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a
some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but
some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by
some hints touching the plain facts, historical and otherwise, of the
some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I say, that the whale in
some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;--a race notorious for
some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day. I thought they
some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets
some oil. After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first
some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are
some one or two particulars, not at all affecting the matter presently
some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two correspond
some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try
some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for
some small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales. Many are
some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the table, and
some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby
some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own country, of
some vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the
somebody's arm, leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used
somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverie
somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm
somerset upon the Indian; so that with the next trial, he came forth in
something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What
something in the picture's midst. THAT once found out, and all the rest
something in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these
something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
something like the following, but I do not pretend to quote
something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the
something like those in the finest Italian line engravings. But these
something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The whole
something said here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when
something to pry open the door--the axe!--the axe! he's had a stroke
sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the American
sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But these
sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the
sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means of
sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine
sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the
sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them
sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful
somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in the
somewhere--to something else than common land, more palmy than the
somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable
sons and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters must
soon completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, the
soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediately
soon exhaust the lines, that using all their dexterous might, they
soon swayed up to their cranes--the two parts of the wrecked boat having
sorrow in the signers
sorry guard. With the problem of the universe revolving in me, how
sort in the great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one
sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole, but in all
sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the
sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the English whalers
sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his
sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with a
sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. Others of the
soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from the
soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then, memory
soul, goes about all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his
sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food
soundest advice ever is. Now, in general, STICK TO THE BOAT, is your
sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the time
sourceless primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the
southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
spade is sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless
spare Bible for the steward--after all this, the two Captains, Peleg
spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means
spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over
spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her
speak aloud!--Mast-head there! See ye my boy's hand on the
speak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now
speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw
special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving
specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though
species, however perishable in his individuality. He swam the seas
spectacle of the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous
spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats
sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager glances shot
speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we
speediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing--namely
spells and potencies to the outward world. Inward they turned upon the
spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all
spent three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; the desolation
sperm whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree
sperm whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that
sperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthy
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the fire;--but now it
spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber
sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head
spied the book, assured me that "Dan Coopman" did not mean "The Cooper
spikes projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a
spinal cord--as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain
spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into simple
spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of
spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward. They
spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver
spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;--even so did the
spite of her leak, and spite of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still
spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp
splashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious
split your spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your
spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal
spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had
spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee
spot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme
spotted tawn--living, breathing pictures painted by the sun. The Pagan
spout his frothed defiance to the skies
sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with a
spray, was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor
spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff the
spread over the sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; when
spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself
spring, I say, all of ye--spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red
spring, the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow. The delicate
springing into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon
sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the
sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks. Wave after
spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, to
squall is the height of a whaleman's discretion
square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous
squeezing my co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the
stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance, considering what
stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant's trunk were as
stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of many books both
stand before me; and I their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, the
stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with a few
standers of the land with those of the sea; but that in truth it is
standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the
standing in the entry, all ready to knock me down
standing there, sideways looking over the stern? Well, the best thing
stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air
staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for
staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows! and a pair
stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me really wretched. Think of
starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and the Flying
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
state that it is casked, the oil is nearly scentless. The truth is, that
state transcends Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest. Who
state, the sweetest of all oils
stated, that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the
stately, that the same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were
statement, touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we
station in the bows of the boat
stationary fright. First, the whales forming the margin of our lake
status with the IRS
steamer. Thus, the foreground is all raging commotion; but behind, in
steel into the sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White
steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both
steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the
steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt like the Tartar, when he holds
steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost
step by step, till the whole was deposited within, leaving him
step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and then back
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie
stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with
stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker underneath for
stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the
stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies with its black
sterns tilted high in the air. And the whale soon ceasing to sound
sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake, and further
steward, Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap
stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There's the stuff," flinging
stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her
stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break the jinglers
still better than they were. But, alas! the practices of whalemen soon
still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty
still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky; still beckoning us
still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host; or
still further over, at the same time sideways inclining his head, so as
still higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channel
still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to
still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. And now, concentric
still more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a
still more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must have
still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the assault
still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven
still used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin
stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out
stole out of the centre of the serenity around. Careful not to touch
stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the dread
stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company
stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames
stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the
stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his scuttle, the Parsee by
stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to him
stop his babbling and betake himself where he belonged. On the fifth
storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab
storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through
storms, the Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless
stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the firm
story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some sceptical Greeks
story, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain
stout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam was
stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic
stowed along the deck, and in the captain's and officers' state-rooms
stowed away on board ship? He's the devil, I say. The reason why you
straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like a
straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying
straightened; and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks
strain constantly kept up by the windlass continually keeps the whale
straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the
straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the fish, all at once
straits of Sunda and Malacca. By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and
strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck, almost the one
strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off to ten times the
strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball
strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman
strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellation must at
strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman. With the landless gull
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended
strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one
straw; the arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble
stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without
streamed it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his
streams. Yet so vast is the quantity of blood in him, and so distant
street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain view
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house. I felt worse
strength has much to do with the magic. Take away the tied tendons that
strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale. No
strength, the other daft with weakness. But here's the end of the rotten
strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb--one engaged forward and the
stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning
stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, or sailing
strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of
strike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White
striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the
striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so
stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling about
stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long living arc of
striving, in his rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on
strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through his
strong vapour now completely filling the contracted hole, it began
strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain
struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. "Captain
struck with the most lively terrors," and "often in the precipitancy of
struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his perfidious
stubbornly fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew
stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my life. I tore
student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was it that the Typhoons
studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my certain
stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so stopped the leaks for
stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification has
subdued in him, in the end was destined to be luridly illumined by
subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main
subject of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
subjects. There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most
submerged trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw
submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of
subsided not, but deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson
substance was in the present instance materially counteracted by the
substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen
suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal
succeed in the attempt. Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in
succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same
successive monarchs of the East--if they still survive there in great
successively longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one
succor the distressed, and not to fill men's lamp-feeders. Every one
succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish sharked waters
such a calling as he does, the whaleman is wrapped by influences all
such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that even in the
such nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the
sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan; yet, even in the
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark
suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready
suddenly from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint
suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far to leeward; whereupon
suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and
sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swift fury
sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it
suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white
suicide, does the all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. But
summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a
sun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints
sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place; where his
sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore
sunbeam! Hurrah!--Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad
sundering the rope near the chocks--dropped the intercepted fagot of
sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the
sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it was
sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking of
superiority over the dead level of the mass. Such large virtue lurks
superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for
superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
supper cooking in the great bowels below. Sea fowls are pecking at the
suppose, as the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country
supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents on the
supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a
supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
supposition founded upon it is reasonable and true, seems the more
sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the
surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great
surface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his
surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle surrounding it
surface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of the waters
surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and
surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast--"Corrupt as
surprising after all. Consider! Most of the scientific drawings have
surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his
surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular
surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in due time, he
survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial flood
suspected. They were hidden down there. The White Whale's at the bottom
suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own. However
suspended against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop
suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one of the compass-cards
suspicion. So he makes the best of it; and when the sailors find him
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that
swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in
swarthy brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple
swaying him to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were
sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little or
sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
swells, you needs must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan
swept across four several cruising-grounds; that off the Azores; off the
swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally the deliverance and
swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of Good Hope
swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,--which thus far had
swims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing
swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of wood
swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant
sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice of the Peace
swung from the cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of an
sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is made the emblem of many
systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder
t'gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. The
tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh
tackles and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had always
tainted. Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable
take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of the entire
take care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. For
take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To
take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Lord! is this the
take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew
taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turned out
taken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is again
taken for the Traitors' Gate leading from the Thames by water into the
taken from the dead fish. In the three-year instance, it so fell out
taken off in Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding
taken place; there the waves were storied with his deeds; there also was
taken together, all happening before my own eyes, and producing, at the
taken with the context, this is full of meaning
takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep
takes up the old burden, and with a rapid "Dinner, Mr. Flask," follows
taking regular turns at either limit, the binnacle and mainmast; but
tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is
tallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oil they
tally round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting
tangle or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take
tantalization of the gods
tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea
taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a
taste. I'm used to ice-floors. I'm sorry to throw cold water on the
tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of his
tattooing--looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the
tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home
tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide
tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends
tears the vane"--pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck--"Ha
teetering side, stove in the boat's bottom at the stern, and left it
teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the white
teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the
teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had done
telescope; "there I saw him, on the Line, last season
tell whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his
tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into
tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea
temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans
tempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullest
tendinous wall of the well--a double welded, hammered substance, as I
tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters
tent spread over the same bone
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they occasionally
terrible events,--as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in
terrible in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds
terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung
testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm
than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety
than ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole
than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale's
than here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the
than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any
than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing
than one nation has convinced me that in the vast majority of failures
than the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it--a mere hillock, and elbow of
than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. Provoke him
than the Pequod's, man. Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-truck higher than
than the embattled teeth of sharks
than the modern Cadiz. That's the opinion of learned men. And where is
than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead--Moby Dick
than the planed one--so there was no yoking them. I then placed the
than the skin of a new-born child. But no more of this
than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then. Didn't
than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with the lead line
that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds
that I had done the same thing. After the ceremony was concluded upon
that I was in the boat both times, first and last, and the last time
that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The
that accursed fish.--The very tube he pointed at me!--the very one
that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
that always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no
that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the
that appears to result, in some way, from the consideration before
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if Gabriel
that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale as much
that club-hammer there put to the end, to knock some one's brains
that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's water-line, Jonah
that cooper don't waste the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are in
that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a
that express object as much in view, as in setting out through the
that fat goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quill did
that from the simple observation of a whale when last descried, they
that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel the Deity and the
that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his
that great golden seal affixed by the German Emperors to their decrees
that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the pumps; and being
that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept company
that handle made of?--what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
that he had already done so, and received the money, and would be
that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the
that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke
that he pointed at me;--that one with the studded stock; let me touch
that he should live out the lifetime of his God
that he was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage--a sort of
that he wouldn't dare to show his face in the admiral's cabin again for
that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid spell would be
that if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits, every conceivable
that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularly
that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethings
that is, if you call those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids
that is, regardless of how the thing came into possession? But often
that is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is the case
that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer
that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably
that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain
that land, the King, as Honourary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head
that leviathan in HAVING HIS SPOUTINGS OUT, as the fishermen phrase
that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod
that matter. Until Cabaco's published discovery, the sailors had little
that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was what they
that mortals realize the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life
that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is full of a soft
that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the
that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first
that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric
that notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the
that only in the extreme, lower, backward sloping part of the front of
that part of the sun; in such latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too
that part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only
that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their
that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish
that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdon gives
that same blubber; and the outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if
that ship there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about
that some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose
that storm-tossed bird is on the wing
that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand--his
that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with
that swung from a beam in the ceiling
that take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the
that the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance
that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we
that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale
that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known
that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me--but at
that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This improvement
that the other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when
that the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender
that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a large
that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages
that those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this
that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the
that time, did actually do great mischief along the Spanish land. But
that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix
that to many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the
that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive
that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength
that unless artificially upheld, the body would at once sink to the
that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race
that upon first breaking ground in the whale's back, the blubber-hook
that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific, among many
that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a
that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise interblending
that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the ladies
that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him
that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we saw the monster
that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman
that whales had been introduced on the stage there." --ECKERMANN'S
that when unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods
that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to
that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the great anchor, what
that you will be particular in procuring the largest sized Evangelists
that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these and the
that, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that
that, if he would have him draw the tooth
that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before. Then
that,--within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height
the
the "bright waist," that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
the "local attraction" of all binnacle magnets; an error ascribable to
the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which signals
the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from
the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of sinking, they
the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only one that can
the Captain from that scent. 'I'll sail with ye,'--he says,--'the
the Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a
the China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with
the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People's
the Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in
the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength
the Commodore's interview with that whale as providential. Was not Saul
the Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly
the Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale
the Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the
the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called "fritters"; which, indeed
the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and natural
the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there. And whatever
the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
the Frenchman's two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous
the German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled
the Germans were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend once
the God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds
the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is a deal of
the Guernsey-man to this effect,--that having a long tow-line in his
the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very
the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case
the Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her
the King and Queen, "because of its superior excellence." And by the
the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so
the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of
the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name of
the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye! He's looking this way--come, oakum
the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving
the Lord out of the fish's belly. But observe his prayer, and learn a
the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had
the Massachusetts calendar. Here's the book. Let's see now. Signs and
the Milky Way
the NARWHALE; IV., the THRASHER; V., the KILLER
the National Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851. By
the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale will still
the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away
the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment
the Pequod's decks, that all hands were preparing to cast anchor in
the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was again lowering
the Pequod's quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds, there
the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and hoisting operations
the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other
the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that
the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself
the Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while other ships may
the Porpoise is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all the
the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon
the Puritanic sands
the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and though in other mortal
the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his trees
the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders
the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in
the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of
the Sperm Whale's brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you
the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of the
the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off in
the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan, whose lofty
the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the Philistines, has but two
the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate intercepted
the Tomahawk from one to the other, till slowly there grew over us a
the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish
the Try Pots. But the directions he had given us about keeping a yellow
the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of the Unicornism
the Victory's plank where Nelson fell. "Ah, noble ship," the angel
the White Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger
the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote from his
the White Whale; he'll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My father, in old
the Yarman! Sail over him
the above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish
the above words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us
the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale
the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the
the after part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals in the
the air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; they have been
the air! There's orthodoxy
the air--as the boat churned on through both opposing elements at once
the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad flukes close
the air. I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my hammock! Now, what
the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench
the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
the archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in
the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or
the arm story
the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in
the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped
the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon rising
the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family from starvation
the banks of the Upper Mississippi. Like those mystic rocks, too, the
the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his black
the basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so
the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other detached
the beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the
the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little
the bed of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in
the beings who have placelessly perished without a grave. As well might
the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning
the benefit of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness of
the best musk. Also forget not the strange fact that of all things of
the bitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round
the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted mouth of
the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched
the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood
the blasted whale; and so talk over it
the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the tumult
the blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship
the boat
the boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air
the boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon
the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a prodigious great
the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb, firmly
the boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side
the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, you would
the boat, is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings
the boats of any other ship draw near
the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales
the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward
the boats, whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue--the
the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and
the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of the
the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand
the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian coast, were
the bones of the human hand, minus only the thumb. This fin has four
the bottom of his temporary recluseness. And not only this, but to that
the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being
the bottom of the whale-boat is like critical ice, which will bear up
the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. And now his
the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
the bows
the bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and
the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave
the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed
the breeze--however reluctantly and gloomily,--than he mechanically went
the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip for an instant on
the bright sun's rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly settled by
the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
the bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large
the bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats
the business
the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and
the cabin to report this unfavourable affair
the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship
the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that winsome
the cannibal's jaw? Cannibals? who is not a cannibal? I tell you it will
the capricious emblazonings of the works. As they narrated to each other
the capstan, and resting on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so
the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates
the captain is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern
the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby
the captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit
the carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway
the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation. A sailor takes
the carpenter's pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all
the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in
the case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its
the casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is
the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the deck, grappled
the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it. Least of all, did
the chap
the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and consider that
the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving
the chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world they
the chief-mate
the churchyard gate, going in
the circular. "This chart divides the ocean into districts
the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth
the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs
the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
the comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm--unlock his
the community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high
the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone whales no longer
the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy
the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking; quite the
the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from pirates
the constitution; upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire
the course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling
the course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to
the course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl
the craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon
the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that the
the craft's bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience to some
the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was
the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in some enchanted way
the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea
the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his
the crescentic borders of these flukes. At its utmost expansion in the
the crew
the crew reached the land in their boats. Being returned home at last
the crew sprang for the handspikes
the crew, this man's valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all
the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is
the cry of "There she blows!" and away they fly to fight another whale
the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest secrets of the seas
the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds
the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the sea-coast, and as
the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the voyage
the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled them
the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering
the dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a
the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning
the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the probability
the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into the
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon
the deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And then, without
the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, "Dinner, Mr
the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the end, Tashtego has to
the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck, and thrust
the deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully
the destiny of all his race. Nor does it unfrequently occur, that
the devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away
the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy
the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of
the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery
the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be
the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect
the down train will reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour
the earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian to be a son
the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strike
the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very
the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green
the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen
the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much marvelled
the elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious
the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by
the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were
the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what
the end. It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling jobs. Lord
the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries
the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the
the enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side
the entire interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists. Though
the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh
the erected crests of enraged serpents
the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts
the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest symbol of the crystal skies
the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry--"Stand up, and give it
the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time bearing on
the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life
the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the
the eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It
the fact is, you books must know your places. You'll do to give us the
the fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not
the faintest doze. I had blown out the candle; and the mere thought
the fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint
the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of
the far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wilderness and
the fare was of the most substantial kind--not only meat and potatoes
the feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when
the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as
the figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string
the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them
the fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
the fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled "A Voyage among the
the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And who composed
the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm
the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however
the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the evening
the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his descendants
the first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a prince than
the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to surrender; and
the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch
the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the
the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. The owners
the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which
the fish's flank. When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned
the fish." But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year 1850
the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs
the fishermen recalled, in reference to Moby Dick, the earlier days
the fishermen technically call a "grey-headed whale
the fishermen, were there not some written or unwritten, universal
the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that
the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
the flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? And
the flood;--and I feel now like a billow that's all one crested comb
the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that
the flowers of the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most
the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate vacuity
the forecastle scuttle, rather too much diluted and pickled it to my
the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses' hoofs. I do not
the former one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in the assault; and
the former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them
the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great-white
the fourth rigged boat--a reserved one--had been instantly lowered in
the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was
the fright. 'What am I about?' says I at last. 'And what business is
the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure
the furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fitted
the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose a wholly
the general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly
the gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with
the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky forehead, a musical
the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory
the good old way--head foremost. As for the great head itself, that was
the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger
the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of all
the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks, and
the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
the green fields gone? What do they here
the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is the magic glass
the green locker! Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days, men; but don't
the grindstone. That's he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man
the ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an
the gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being
the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing
the half of any decent man's blanket
the hand after darting
the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales
the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance, yet it
the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost
the harpooneer's not coming home at all that night, it being so very
the harpooneers are the holders, so called
the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
the hatches and thus spoke to the officer
the head, and low down, near the angle of either whale's jaw, if you
the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; and not till you
the head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of
the head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether
the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
the headsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper
the heart of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his
the heart of that almighty forlornness. There, then, he sat, the sign
the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I
the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely free from
the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for securing
the helm
the helmsman's bell, was heard--"What d'ye see?--sharp! sharp
the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most subtly
the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter was no duplicate
the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a
the hold? Ain't that queer, now? But there's no telling, it's the old
the hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that
the hook is inserted, and the main body of the crew striking up a wild
the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the ship's planks, and in the
the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all their
the house in pursuit of him
the house. What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the crannies
the hull of a great ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty
the hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they
the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction
the hunters
the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the
the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind
the ignoble monster primitively pursued in the North; seated on their
the imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his
the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and
the imputation by stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about
the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have no
the inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said
the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularity of the
the inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is on ye
the insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?' 'Yes, he did,' says
the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this were
the invoking, and adoring cherubim
the iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms of
the irons, the irons!--hoist the royals higher--a pull on all the
the issue of the gale. Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists
the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone
the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they
the judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on
the kelson is low? Delight is to him--a far, far upward, and inward
the kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is
the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides on his
the kingly commons; bear me out in it, O God
the kitchen, and bawling out "clam for two," disappeared
the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almost seemed threatening
the known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
the known varieties of the whale. As the external difference between
the land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the
the land; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere
the landlord's policy of insurance. I was only alive to the condensed
the lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare
the lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard
the last fear!" And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the
the last two years
the last, literally died at his post. Of modern standers-of-mast-heads
the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany, mixed
the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
the least quivering of his own
the level ship's compass, and the level deadreckoning, by log and by
the levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose
the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible rested on a
the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice
the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their
the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boats were
the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse resurrections to
the living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms from
the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their laden
the loftiest and the brightest
the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them
the long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy--start
the long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it from
the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid
the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific coast
the long straight edges are always kept
the long yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as
the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But
the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs against his wrist
the lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side
the loss of his leg
the low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the
the lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch
the lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when
the lowermost one inserted into the kelson
the main-mast. "Mr. Starbuck, drive'em aft
the main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and
the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each other; as if in the
the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years' dangerous
the many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over obliquely
the marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose now
the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain
the mariner who will tell thee, "Sir, it was not so much the fear of
the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but still serious
the mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very
the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been
the mast it's a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! old Ahab
the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and though, when
the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful. There
the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around them, has a
the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with the hempen one, so that
the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said to
the mates, armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the
the matter now, old fellow?' 'Look ye here,' says he; 'let's argue
the matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and a
the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like
the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
the men selected for shipkeepers--that is, those not appointed to the
the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping
the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps
the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at
the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy and
the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought
the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a
the mightiest whale is free
the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him REQUIN
the millionth time we say amen with Solomon--Verily there is nothing new
the modern Juan Fernandes. "In our way thither," he says, "about four
the moment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous
the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence
the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to
the monster's spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single
the mood was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy
the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul
the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of the
the most appalling, but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be
the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had been regularly
the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet ever thinking
the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession
the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of
the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm Whale
the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in
the most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between
the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man
the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with
the mute, motionless Parsee's face. Unobserved he rose and glided away
the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the great
the name of a celebrated tribe of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct
the nearest. I stand alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and
the negro's lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanity stamping the
the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage pillow--wife
the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in the forecastles
the noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars
the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there, and
the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant
the number of the other boat's crews, at the same time, but on the other
the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the occasion, and
the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the
the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God heard the engulphed, repenting
the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality, and
the oil specially known as "whale oil," an inferior article in commerce
the old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the
the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in allaying
the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does "the tall pale man" of the
the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the
the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, "I have it! It has happened
the old man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets
the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards stood near it. And
the only banqueter on whale's flesh that night. Mingling their mumblings
the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
the open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluish
the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the extreme
the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard; when, with both hands folded
the order, and not sooner
the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferent
the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but
the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the
the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, with that
the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he
the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was
the other remains standing
the other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in
the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable. The
the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head
the outer air, so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and
the outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight
the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old
the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed
the paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed
the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is
the passage home, he was a little out of his mind for a spell; but it
the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced
the peculiar practical virtues of his teachings
the peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold--I
the perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some
the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual
the person now called the captain, but was divided between him and an
the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated little
the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without
the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease; preserving
the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for
the plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-stricken credulous
the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and crash
the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous
the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed
the port, the land, is that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all
the pouch upon the anvil. "Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered
the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles were
the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem
the precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at the
the present case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes
the present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have
the present human population of the globe
the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away
the previous day; the rack of the past night's suspense; the fixed
the price, and don't be too particular
the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to
the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused. Water was then
the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid circle the
the privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters
the profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right
the profits called lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the
the proper page, said: "Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the
the purpose of counteracting the errors resulting from what is called
the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns
the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shattered stern
the quarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiar
the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights. But war
the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get
the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there
the reel, one of ye, I'll heave
the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the
the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be visited: so does the
the rest as silently following
the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty for my
the revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while
the rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is
the right whale, among a theoretic species denominated WHALEBONE WHALES
the ring
the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his
the rope to strike
the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to the
the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a
the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet
the sagacious kindness of the dog? The accursed shark alone can in any
the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not
the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter content to
the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share my every hap
the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were
the same hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the same
the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor was
the same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down
the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching
the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinctive
the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a
the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake
the same you say is now on board the Pequod
the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more
the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt
the scattered people to condense. "Starboard gangway, there! side away
the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp
the sea
the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with spherical ripples
the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift
the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab
the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat
the sea, this host of vapoury spouts, individually curling up into the
the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight
the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again
the sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and
the seaman's hand--that fatal hour was then to come; and in the
the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds of bone, as they
the seasons and places in which, on various former voyages of various
the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which
the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect
the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew
the shell. 'Twill soon be out
the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a
the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was
the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in the air
the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship
the ship's black hull still houses an illumination
the ship's cabin belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that
the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in a
the ship's work suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of
the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock
the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted
the shipping. After much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries
the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm
the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for granted the
the shore. Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the
the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level
the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory
the sides of the two ships, this standing captain is all alive to the
the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of it being
the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, especially
the sinking bulk, and the ship seemed on the point of going over
the skeleton of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passes
the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking
the skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say
the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the
the slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and
the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with his
the slightest way
the slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made
the smitten hull
the smoke from the touch-hole
the solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if he did not go with
the soul, therefore it must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up
the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New Zealand heads
the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly
the spare boats and rig them--Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's
the sparkling brine into the air
the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful
the sperm whale's jaw. "Aye, he was dismasted off Japan," said the old
the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts
the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars
the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But never
the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the
the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun's rearward place, and how
the storm booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible of
the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard
the story
the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle, and
the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate scene
the strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the
the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds from it. It is as though
the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the winds
the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to
the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen
the substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy
the subterranean regions, "a purse! a purse
the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed some
the sun and the moon why they were created and to what end; when though
the sun stands in some one of these signs. I've studied signs, and know
the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the
the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun to ye
the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would. Besides, if
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom
the swarming brood, might very comfortably be lodged, she and all her
the t' gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner
the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure I cannot
the table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this
the tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and
the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart
the task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using
the tent
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
the terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart
the territories of Birmah, forms the most southerly point of all Asia
the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye
the thick-lipped leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of
the thing he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from
the thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closer
the thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for
the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they
the thought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual
the three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous
the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
the tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over
the time
the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless
the time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other
the time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon
the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends of the
the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and
the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a devil of a boat's
the town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light
the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes
the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his vapoury
the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises
the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that he must be some
the try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He
the ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was the fact of a
the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each
the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I'll slay
the unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes
the upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to the
the upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way
the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
the use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don't want thunder; we want rum; give
the utmost interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical
the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship; always equal to
the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was
the vaulted hull, "Stern all! the White Whale spouts thick blood
the venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller
the vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the
the vessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps
the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a general thing
the visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of all
the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats, spare spars, and spare
the voyage, all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly
the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains
the waist; and the better to guard against the leaping waves, each man
the wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing in the crotch
the water alongside. In the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have
the water with some precision again; and the course--for the present
the water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when
the water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to
the waters, he states as follows: "On account of their warm bilocular
the way part of those waters, some really landless latitude, that her
the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's veil at Lais
the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire (which was
the weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly
the weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to
the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
the whale alongside
the whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under
the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded
the whale hunt. For the most part, the English and American whale
the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of
the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too, live in
the whale's eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of
the whale's head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lie about, as
the whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt
the whale, which, having been before all time, must needs exist after
the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they
the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and
the whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced whalemen
the whale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long
the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks--pale in the
the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, 'what's his leg now, but
the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot from the
the whip--which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles--a
the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, as over the
the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is
the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo
the white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most
the whiteness, separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable
the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of
the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage up the
the whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square
the whole of the law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's last
the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a white
the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling
the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did
the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes, glitteringly
the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fireside, the
the wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the
the will of God--THAT is worship. And what is the will of God?--to do to
the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least
the woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter
the word ROSE, and the bulbous figure-head put together, sufficiently
the word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was
the word, you deliver that which is not true." --HACKLUYT
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
the world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to
the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several memorable
the world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely
the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with. By
the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same
the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating
the wound, he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the lone
the wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly
the yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory
the"--but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and
thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage--and, foolish as I am, taught
thee! Nay--the shuttle flies--the figures float from forth the loom; the
thee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But
their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers and
their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of the whale of the
their backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the
their child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile
their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of sharks. But once
their feet. From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence
their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship had given us
their flag in the Pacific
their flight dash themselves against the rocks with such violence as to
their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken keel of
their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this race, had not
their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their
their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be--what the White
their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man's knife, as he carved
their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch
their old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on
their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings
their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain
their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads; even so these
their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populous river-capitals
their tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia
their very joints and bones, after what might be called the individual
them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on
them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a combing
them happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to
them is, in some vicissitudes of their vocation, revived in the minds of
them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to
them round in the piers and alcoves. Besides, it was very convenient on
them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a new
them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though
them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?--For
them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the ship free
themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks--the
themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick
themselves. So that did you carry them the news that another flood had
then a scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and
then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy leg over the
then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible
then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of
then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the
then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before
then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair play
then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson. So, deprived
then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in
then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed thereby bringing two
then raising his voice to the crew: "Furl the t'gallant-sails, and
then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing
then slightly tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with
then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally
then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in
then the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen, where a
then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the
then, if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I the roaring streams from
then, remains? The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan
then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back
then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such unusual
then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb benevolently towed
then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard of many
then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not
then; the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old
then? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose
there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest
there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and
there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord, Lord, that the winds that come
there had been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched
there in the bar--wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug enough." So saying
there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of the
there is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod
there seemed no need of the carpenter's box: and thereupon, when some
there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With one mind
there steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied
there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable
there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only broken by
there was a terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the before
there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the
there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the imminent
there! I would e'en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic
there! that chap strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hat and
there!--beware of the blasphemer's end
there!--brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye. He's too
there's the insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that any mere
there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and
there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns
there, give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are
there, he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed
there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers. Not the wondrous
there--pointing to the sea--is a green pasture where our children's
there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his
there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
there; but not with the lightning
there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and
there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast, and
therefore, they were going to leave the ship's stern unprovided with a
therefore, withhold any amazement at the strangely gallied whales
these cases the native American liberally provides the brains, the rest
these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active
these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of
these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New
these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The lightning
these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves behind the barricade
these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats
these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly
these whaling seamen belong to the Azores, where the outward bound
they are alike. Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
they are very similar. If I claim the demigod then, why not the prophet
they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks
they had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen
they may reveal of the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled
they sat at a social breakfast table--all of the same calling, all of
they say the rest of his property is invested in looking-glasses. I
they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others
they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an honest
they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether
they were followed by steady jets from the new made wound, which kept
they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind
they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner's
they're on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a squall
thick water the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but the lees of my
thickest of the fight
thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of
thin, transparent substance, somewhat resembling the thinnest shreds
thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer clear of the fiery pit
thing at least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting
thing could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reached
thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg
thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the
thing than THAT. Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things
thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray
thing--though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise way in
things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
things are forced to feed--Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the latent
things not properly belonging to the room, there was a hammock lashed
things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then at the fiery
things the most appalling to mankind
things, I say, had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time. But
think it may have been something more than that; the man who darted
think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little
think of Death and the Judgment then
think. Didn't the people laugh
thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the good God, the barb ript
thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I
thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties and
third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once
third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language
thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
this all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these
this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting
this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the
this block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was
this book corroborated by plain facts of the present day, but that these
this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance--the
this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters the sign
this crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
this disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists
this head. Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper
this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now
this hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter of
this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of
this matter, that they kept the secret among themselves so that it never
this not been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded
this objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetist
this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam
this particular instance--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm
this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided
this reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plunging bowsprit, that
this seems an additional argument for the above supposition
this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the
this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so
this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, the
this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long
this was repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and
this was the sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next
this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed
this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful
this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe
this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood
this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And all
this, that strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper
this--the first lives aft, the last forward. Hence, in whale-ships and
thistle the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha
thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond
those cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one
those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation
those female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
those inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to
those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of
those sharks the maggots in it
those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in
those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here
those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife of a whaling
thou actest right; live in the game, and die in it
thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in the
thou damned whale! THUS, I give up the spear
thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed
thou observest it from that sashless window, where the frost is on both
thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of
thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own screwed
thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless
thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now, my shipmates, the behavior
though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these
though all the time running away from it to the southward; and by every
though among the Red Men of America the giving of the white belt
though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I
though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions
though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my
though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in
though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships
though she had thus continued doing till daylight; yet not the least
though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that
though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the
though, at times, but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's
though, doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions about
thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
thought I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of
thought of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky
thought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the
thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made
thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Dick
thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the
thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by
thoughts. While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had the
thousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth
thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was the
thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely every year
thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest
thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the
thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all the
thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a
three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped
three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship
three chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the
three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone
three lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid
three of the stranger's boats were engaged with a shoal of whales, which
three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder part of the
three years intervened between the flinging of the two harpoons; and I
threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively
thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned men
throat. And when that's done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a
throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all
throne, the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he
thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by the same route
through the bulkhead below. But the hours of darkness passed in peace
through the cloven blue air to the deck
through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled, bantering
through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
through which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose
through.--It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale.--It's the unnatural
throw of the shore" (Terra Del Fuego), "over which the beech tree
throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in a
throwing the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only a civil
thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods. Yes, we were now
thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifference
thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his escape
thrust back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a
thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair
thump and a dead thump. That's what makes a blow from the hand, Flask
thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts
thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read the memoirs of
thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the
thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad
thy harpoon are at hand!--Down! down all of ye, but one man at the fore
thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas
thy word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those
thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
thyself, man. Here are my razors--the best of steel; here, and make the
tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the
tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream
tiger-yellow crew were tumbling over each other's heads to gain the
till he swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom
till it entirely disappears; then giving the word to the seamen at the
till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small whale
till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up. An
time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over the cabin table
time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the
time finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the
time the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the
time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck
time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our
time, impressions in my mind of decided, calculating mischief, on the
times creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, were
times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying the
timidity, decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are
tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an
tis the better rest, the shark's jaw than the yielding water
to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All
to Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the
to Queequeg, there, this instant off the whale. Is the steward an
to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall
to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and
to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface
to all sailors; but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most
to and fro skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and
to another; 'I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy
to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise; not
to assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of
to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface
to be rehearsed from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one
to be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even
to become entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water. That
to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. But taking
to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving the tree still greenly
to break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding the
to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed
to chat with the captain, and it would not create any unsubduable
to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of
to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below. And
to comprehend itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered
to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is being
to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season
to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and
to descend into the blubber-room, and have a long talk with its inmates
to drive out of others' hearts what's clinched so fast in mine!--The
to effect which, the exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary. His
to elucidating the sperm whale
to engage them, the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep
to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If I had been
to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed
to get under the shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes an
to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that
to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs
to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and
to have one's hands among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very
to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when
to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
to himself, leaning against the bulwarks. "The old man seems to read
to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the
to his feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with
to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall form of
to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some
to his vengeance. But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering
to inquire the way, we at last came to something which there was no
to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while
to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant
to it with the other; that done, dish it; d'ye hear? And now to-morrow
to it--for they were slack--because some play to the tiller was
to it; seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal
to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he not
to look disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when
to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with the
to lounge up the rigging very leisurely, resting in the top to have a
to make any improvements now. The universe is finished; the copestone
to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running
to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in the real
to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular
to my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides
to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head
to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past days
to one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused
to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle
to perceive the whale's intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a
to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his head by
to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact
to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,--"Sail on the whale!--Drive him
to save their lives; but that with regard to the controverted whale
to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the
to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. His
to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw
to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such a
to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour between a young
to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen's boats, I saw
to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, and the
to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would have
to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to
to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; and as
to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering industry
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
to the bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and
to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah
to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the
to the bows of the still flying boat
to the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low over the
to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: and
to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in
to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize
to the destruction and loss of the very things upon which the success of
to the east of the continent--those insulated, immemorial, unalterable
to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its first blunder-born
to the eternal honour of our calling be it said, that the first whale
to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning."--Then advancing
to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open. Seeing a
to the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra
to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with angels, and
to the hidden cause we seek
to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for
to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those
to the lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr
to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when running into more sufferable
to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe
to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the strongest
to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready dug to
to the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as
to the oars to lash them across
to the old man's ire--by what evil magic their souls were possessed
to the other, by merely stepping across the deck:--where, I should like
to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for
to the roll of the ship, and with his astrological-looking instrument
to the root of his tail." --A CHAPTER ON WHALING IN RIBS AND TRUCKS
to the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length of the
to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs in
to the sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink
to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
to the still shivering greenhorn
to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his lap
to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters
to the utmost, for he might often find it needful
to the very spring-head of it so much the more am I impressed with its
to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the missionary and the
to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed
to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to the
to three tons. In length, the common sperm whale-line measures something
to turn to. The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united
to unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what's the consequence? Then
to what? To three bits of board. Is this the creature of whom it was
to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his
to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumps clanged as
to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are very irregular
to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot the
to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail
to. Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the same
toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as
together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visible
together in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his
together in the sheepfold of a theatre's pit, they will, at the
together on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck
together, mutually sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in
together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will
toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no seeming
token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange
told of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time
told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land? Why did the
tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so
tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets
tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the
tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm
too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it must
too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that's the heel; we are in luck
took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph. What
took Stubb's long spade--still remaining there after the whale's
took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his purpose
took the fish had a right to them. Now the defendants afterwards took
toothache. Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord keep me
top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into
top of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take the order, and away
top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat
top of his head; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides
top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape
top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of the same precious
top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures, and so at
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream
torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth with malice
tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at the base of a
tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till they
tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own
totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic
touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the
touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say, just
touching plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English
touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here treated of
touching the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale
touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most
touching, noble things--the innocence of brides, the benignity of age
towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower
towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling
towards the doubloon in the main-mast--"Men, this gold is mine, for I
towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow--a sort of connexion
towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes
towards the ship, "but I can't remember where
towards the sun and murmured to himself: "Thou sea-mark! thou high and
towards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while yet
towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar moods
towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the
towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at
town to do honour to Alexander the Great
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
traditions one whit the less facts, for all that
tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of
transferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carries
transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's end
transition, when with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water
transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of
transparently pure and soft, with a woman's look, and the robust and
transpired abaft the Pequod's main-mast. Interweaving in its proper
trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
travel, I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social
treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the
treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other subjects, contained
treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in his own
trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs
trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to the sky. More
trick at the helm would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the
trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest, ruggedest
triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world's capital
troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old man's face
trouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all
troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and
troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea
true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any. The
true cylinders without--within, the villanous green goggling glasses
true. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been
true. The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened sea; the wooden
true; it happened on this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have
truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered
try-pots, which, covered with the parchment-like POKE or stomach skin of
tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its
tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through the same round until
tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge--pondering all this, the
tumbled back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in the sea, the
tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no
tumultuous masses of block-ice when the great river Hudson breaks up in
tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck
tumultuous white curds in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock
tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round
turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing
turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose the cause of his devious
turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the
turning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some
turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in the
turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place. The boat now
tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the lads for
twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick! I'll
twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting the chase
twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal
twilight into the clear air of the day
twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it was to
twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction. All the
two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won't smoke
two lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate the
two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
two reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly
two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean--Jonah
two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all things
two such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens us
two thirds of the fair world it yet covers
two, in a sudden squall say--to seize hold of the nearest oarsman's
ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited
unaccountable farrago of the landlord's
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown
unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab that had
unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the
unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary VEIN in which at these
uncle after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home
uncommon large whale, the body of which was larger than the ship itself
unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate
uncontaminated aroma,--literally and truly, like the smell of spring
uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the
unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the
unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with abhorrence
under him. On both sides the sea came in at the wounded planks, but we
under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the
under the American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm
under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the
under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth
under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches
under the sun
under the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn the whole
under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this time
under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden
understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's) death would be the signal
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
undeveloped skulls. But the curious external resemblance, I take it
unerringly I rush! Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle to the iron
unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight
unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a
unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the
unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan
unfrequently occur; almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so
unhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of
unharmed--while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that
uniformly peels off along the line called the "scarf," simultaneously
unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing barely tolerable
universal problem of all things. The mark they thus leave on the whale
unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
unknown regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have
unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live
unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It was the private
unless it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strange
unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial and sentimentalist
unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead warrior
unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some of them lowly
unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea
unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
unobstructed bones. But as the colossal skull embraces so very large
unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never
unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the
unpleasant weariness and warmth. By the time they have lounged up and
unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some
unreasonable to survey and map out the whale's spine phrenologically
unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is
unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air
unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in reading
until some twenty feet of the pole have gone down
untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne
unwarrantably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the case is
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding
unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the cry, and so deliriously
up THY gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we
up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deep
up by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus
up in the rigging, ere they would do the job. But I'm made of knotty
up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over
up the corner of his hat, like a militia officer's skewered feather
up the sea air as a sagacious ship's dog will, in drawing nigh to
up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air and
up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman's bag
up, but drowned the infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though
upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows
uplifted hands--"may the resurrection and the life
upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of seventy tons for the largest
upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many
upon Queequeg's sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to carry
upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance
upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore
upon hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful
upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks. The prow of
upon his silvery ruffles. 'No need to travel! The world's one Lima. I
upon it the name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones of it being
upon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet. The
upon me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that
upon other means of determining the vessel's place, some merchantmen
upon so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out his
upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving
upon the Line in the Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled
upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake of the whales, at
upon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he
upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the
upon the black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, which
upon the body itself. Nor is this all. In some instances, to the quick
upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a
upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that the man who first
upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans. Thus
upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb
upon the scene. Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details
upon the sea for miles and miles,--ahead, astern, this side, and
upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so victoriously gained
upon the three mast-heads
upon the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the largest
upon the try-works, completely hiding the pots; every cask is out of
upon the word HE
upon them. The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how furiously they
upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its reflection into every
upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening of his
upon which the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be
upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water
upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these
upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises
us all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye
us belong; the great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole
us strong news of Moby Dick. To some the general interest in the White
us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs to
us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my
us, but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This
us; cannot have seen the ship yet
useless as propellers, performing now the office of life-preservers
utility of traditions; there's the story of your obstinate survival of
utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name
vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending
vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood. Tierce after
valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding all sail
valuable oil. No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences
valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were
valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of
vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we
vapour. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
vapoured with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary
varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this
various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference
vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive
vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (it
vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching
velocity the line ran through the grooves;--ran foul. Ahab stooped to
velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the
vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh
vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are
vertical, or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail
very buttons of his eyes--look--it wasn't the coat--it must have been
very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the
very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same time. In this
very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors
very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that
very place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the
vessel (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a
vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually
vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of
vessel's way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of a
vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds, and especially
vessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth--off lone
vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the
vessels this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys
vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks
via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of
vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which he
vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway
vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night
viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in
vicissitudes of the fishery. "I will have no man in my boat," said
view, as if diving under the keel. "Cut, cut!" was the cry from the
vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux
villages?--The blast! the blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (LEAPS TO HIS
vinegar-cruet in the other, having just broken away from the occupation
vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her countenance
violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky
virtue thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected
virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil solely hung the
visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows
visited that very island, and he told me that it was the custom, when
visual matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with a
vital jaw of the whale
voice was heard.--"Whose is the doubloon now? D'ye see him?" and if the
voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but the fear
voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain begged his pardon. From that
voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania seized him, seems
voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the
voyage. I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no
voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the
voyages in the merchant service, and I think that
vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature
wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain shares of
waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whether he had lost
wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
wakes--one all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings
waking from it--half steeped in dreams--I opened my eyes, and the before
wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a dexterous
walls, the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin
want of faith in this matter of the prophet, was something obscurely in
wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor
warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to the
warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
warm parlor. What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance
warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though now
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages
warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his
was Stubb. "What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the
was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into
was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering them, he
was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full
was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,--my
was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the plank
was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching
was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see part of the
was compared with a public domain hard copy version of the text
was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her
was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing
was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half hooded
was furnished with three of them. The first and second were successfully
was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically
was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic
was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors running up
was her great original--the Tyre of this Carthage;--the place where the
was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against poison
was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the
was led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock
was nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each
was none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Hark
was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing
was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. They
was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days
was only solved for him by his chief mate's instinctively adopting the
was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who
was placed at the head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in
was recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of
was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. He was therefore
was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by
was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out. Says I, on second
was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden shaft of
was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? and
was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the
was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was run into the
was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom he
was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in most
was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one could certainly say
was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that
was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had
was then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope
was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches
was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin
was traced half-way along the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with
was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or
was, headed, "Smeer," or "Fat," that I found a long detailed list of the
was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the
watch that the whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of
watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the more
watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their
water behind. He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless
water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose to be
water, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other
water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, the spermaceti
water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so evade the other
waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of
waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any whale to
watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond the reach of
wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs roaring
wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly
waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
waves; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe
wavingly held by the German. "Impossible!--a lamp-feeder
way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the officer of
way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and elastic head
way it comes. Hand it me--here's a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; so
way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a gentle air impelling
way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of the passage through
way, one whispers to the other--"Jack, he's robbed a widow;" or, "Joe
we left behind secure, were all the time before us
we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over
we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and rust amid
we now slide into the mouth. Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
we were occasionally visited by small tame cows and calves; the women
we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was very
we'll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a
we'll have the latest news from the Feegees
weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so
weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but the plainest tokens
weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory pole
weather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three
weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked
weather there on the Line. But it was no use--I did all I could; sat up
wedding-cake to present to the whales
weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
welcome cry was heard--"Stand up, Tashtego!--give it to him!" The
well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it. In the
went his mark opposite that article upon the paper. Every once in a
went rolling through the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost
went. I now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward, for
were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole
were cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like
were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the
were entirely under your chin. Moreover you observe that the whale has
were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the first
were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted
were full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night in the
were hard to get about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if
were it not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question. But I beat the
were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. "It feels
were perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it
were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapoury, mid-day sea, that the many
were springing to their oars. In vain the English Captain hailed him
were still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the
were the knightly days of our profession, when we only bore arms to
were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this
were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his
western world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied
westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar. See ye
whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long
whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like a tread-mill
whale and the ship--where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant
whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer that has
whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his
whale fishery. In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and
whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man's hand
whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for the narwhale, one
whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below the surface; and
whale of the two from the ship's side. While the Frenchman's boats
whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because, owing to the
whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking
whale till the whole flensing or stripping operation is concluded. The
whale was brought to the ship
whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and
whale's flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and
whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase. For
whale's talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by
whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the
whale's; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the present lines
whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A sound
whale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the
whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, excepting the
whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases. Then, this same
whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled
whale, in his anatomy--there, at least, we shall be able to hit the
whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as
whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment--as
whale, would make the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet
whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his
whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict the old
whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the
whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony. Moreover
whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters. The uncounted
whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted
whale. Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The
whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with added influence
whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at
whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the
whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenland whale
whaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. I
whalemen--to clamber up a ship's side from a boat on the open sea; for
whaler are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas. In
whalers; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway
whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers inserted
whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with his nondescript
whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On the spires of some
whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be a thorough
whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of the son fitly replacing the
whales which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber. Among
whales, more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no
whales, or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world, yet
whales--now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
whales; under-jawed whales and rostrated whales, are the fishermen's
whaling should have been there shadowed forth. The Hindoo whale
whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the
whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby
whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm Whale-teeth
wharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg
what a noble great whale it was--the noblest and biggest I ever saw
what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent
what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening
what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how exceedingly sharp
what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come
what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is the Archbishop of
what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the time but a vacated
what the proprietors call "the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or
what's the matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort
whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
wheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the
wheels among 'em. Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing
when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating
when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that
when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden
when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to his
when boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind
when circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at
when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating there
when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at
when he wrote the history of the plagues of Egypt
when instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east, and the sea
when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies
when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea--mark how closely they
when that noble Northman flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the
when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is
when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an old
when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then
when the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated
when the time to make the rush should come. But to this their leader as
when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to
when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened
when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak through
when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in
when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the
whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees was
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
where far beneath the fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root
where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollar an inch; in such
where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one at
where the White Whale most feels his accursed life
where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment or
where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil
where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale
whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his blood
wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o'clock in the
wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to. And as the
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of
whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for their
which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and
which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying
which for a long period after hung in the castle at Windsor." An Irish
which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch and
which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster when
which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in
which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man
which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to that
which is sucked in--by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wall
which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this
which is the meanest slave's right; thus treated, this Steelkilt had
which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting
which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead, I transcribe the following
which must remain unpainted to the last. True, one portrait may hit
which necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean
which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than the
which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two--ship and whale
which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces. Opposite the mouth
which she may be destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her. And
which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and
which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, with
which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as much in
which the eager Indian gave
which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at
which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched at
which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's
which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes
which the mutations of the globe have blotted out of existence
which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that through that
which to manage the barrow--Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it
which unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still
which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of the
which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands the prairies
which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal
while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at the men
while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster. Long usage had
while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas, or winds, or
while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would
while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and down
while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat and
while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to
while the other boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisis
while the whale beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were
while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck, concluding
while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered
while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed only to
whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like a dairy-maid's pail
whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breeze now
whiskers" inside of the whale's mouth;* another, "hogs' bristles"; a
whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats
white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at
white curdling cream of the squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had all
white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together
white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. And of all these
white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese! So with
whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge
whiteness--though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped
who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself. Methinks now
who for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way
who had gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But
who had stolen them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that the
who has freely marched up to a battery, would quickly recoil at the
who hath made the sea and the dry land!' Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and
who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own
who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally
who, as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is
who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck rapidly
who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh
whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side of her
whole management of the ship's affairs to these two. And I did not know
whole of this conscientious duty is at last concluded, then the crew
whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes, the
whole story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For
whole striking contrast of the scene
whole, but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and
wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous book
whooping imps of the Blocksburg
whose clinking and clanking at intervals through the dreary night
whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends
whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the
whose names appeared there were now among the congregation, I knew not
why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after the sailing
wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled
wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror to the ship
wide parchment upon the sea
wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Nor
widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks
wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
wife in the wilderness of waters, and the best of wives she is, though
wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper. It
wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at
wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at the time
wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as the
will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
will be the third. Aye, men, he'll rise once more,--but only to spout
will find in the western clearings. But, though for ever mounted on
will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's wick into; aye, we all
will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in phrensies
will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you
will hear over the half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus
will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not
will strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reach outside
wind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that
wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg
winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a descending anchor--as
winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass
windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till at last
windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged the watch, when not
windows, but sadly impairing the view. This peculiarity of the whale's
windrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking
winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It's the first foul wind
windward;--for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed
wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the pit
wise Stubb;' and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of
with Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small number of
with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to
with a bandaged head, arrested them--Radney the chief mate. Ever since
with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish? What is the
with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the steward. 'Come
with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep life of the whale
with a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of
with a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's
with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of
with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had thus
with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake these
with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs
with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the
with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds
with earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken the activity of the
with heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of the fire is prevented
with him half of the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of
with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet
with him. I'll try the bench here
with him. That business consisted in fetching the Commodore's craft such
with him?--Yes, it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and
with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom
with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may be called the
with mine, then; and snatching the first harpoon, let this old
with one of the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also
with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to
with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and the
with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one
with storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes
with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the
with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow. For
with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined
with the White Whale's flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its
with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though directly from
with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began capering
with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the socket of
with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and the shuddering gasps
with the flesh perfectly healed around them, and no prominence of any
with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only a
with the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the
with the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers
with the interlinked terrors and wonders of God
with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this whale belonged
with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced to a
with the man I've diddled. In fact, tell him I must go
with the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he
with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun
with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested
with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene, to
with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same
with the soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first
with the steady fumes from his pipe. As the line passed round and
with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of the
with the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching
with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and all
with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the other
with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it
with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he finds the
with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clear water
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production
with those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the
with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the
with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of
with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my youth was
with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases him away
with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles
with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned
with white bears running over their living backs. In another plate, the
with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn
with--that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions
withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing
within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was
within the year. Don't forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mind
within three or four perches of the pole
within--through--and then, without--the rays of steel; dragged in
within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost
without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other
without immediate death. But the truth of the Matter is, that on either
without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute
without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as the secrets
without the aid of some sort of external arts and entrenchments, always
without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the
without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out the bark from top
withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety
woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies
wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the model of his nose
wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of fifty
wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of infinite
wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable
wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the
wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em. Hem, hem, hem; here they
wondrous, they are true. Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking
wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With
wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out the
woods, the last day of the year! Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now
word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his
wordless Ahab stood up to the blast. Even when wearied nature seemed
words of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has been
wore their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queer
work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask
work up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
working in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
works." This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting his
world full of grave pedlars, all bowed to the ground with their packs
world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright
world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear which
world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the
world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
world. From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
world; every baby an exotic. In good time, nevertheless, as the ardour
worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!--Oh
worth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by
would all but congeal his very eyelashes together. Meantime, the crew
would all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them
would be about the fair thing, but would not have been surprised had I
would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not. That was the
would emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippled way
would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and
would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the
would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that
would have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even
would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the
would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but
would offer, till the following Monday
would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line
would then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number
would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable. In an
would, I only had the management of one end of it
wouldn't begin to be Fedallah's age. Nor all the coopers in creation
wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the
wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the
wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
wrists with all day rowing on the Line,--they only step to the deck to
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
yard-sticks--the great skull echoed--and seizing that lucky chance, I
yards round the waist. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for
yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye--nothing else. Look to the
ye love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come
ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of
ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone! The sun
ye,--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,--in ye
ye. Shan't see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand
year 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street
years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. The original iron entered
years ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand
years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act
years has operated more potentially upon the whole broad world, taken in
yes, give him fits--that's the very word--pitch fits into 'em. Merrily
yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only THAT one I bury; the rest were
yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last
yet be as three spermaceti candles--that's the good promise we saw
yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of Moby Dick had
yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness
yet suspended boats. If the wind only held, little doubt had they, that
yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every sailor swore he
yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter
yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete
yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified
yield you one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluid
you Queequeg--the whale there!--prick him!--hit him! Stand up--stand
you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
you are just the man for him--the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates
you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightest warning
you are quick enough about it, and have a mind to pawn one arm for the
you can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him
you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do we
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
you say the word about not flogging us, we don't do a hand's turn
you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and
you the rest (by the way, captain--Dr. Bunger, ship's surgeon: Bunger
you to hell." --LIFE OF SAMUEL COMSTOCK (THE MUTINEER), BY HIS BROTHER
you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea
you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung
you will not fail to see, that not only is the most marvellous event in
you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature
you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of
you would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole
you would see still stranger foot-prints--the foot-prints of his one
you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those
young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted
young men born along its line, the probationary life of the Grand Canal
young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking
your snugness and the cold of the outer air. Then there you lie like the
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
yourself.' But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where
yourself; say the word; don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready
yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed purpose is
youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry
youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving
zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I'll get the almanac and
zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual cabalistics, and the
zones. On more accounts than one, a pity it is that the whale does not
1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation
1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don't be sentimental; it's bad for the
2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d'ye hear
13,000, have been annually slain on the nor'-west coast by the Americans
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to
2000 square feet--the pressure of the water is immense. We all know
